How to draw a bird
Have you ever looked at a bird and thought about how fascinating they are? These amazing creature can look significantly different from each other based on their diet, habits, environment and abilities, such as flying, swimming or running. Each and every type of bird has their own physical composition that's truly unique, which, as an artist, makes for an exciting challenge.Our feathery friends are quite complex when it comes to the skeletal and muscular structure, as well as the formation of the wings and feathers. So to create an accurate representation of a bird, you'll need to pay attention to detail.This how to draw a bird tutorial is a step-by-step guide on drawing a side view of a bird, using an American Robin as an example. The lesson begins by explaining the six major body parts to watch for when drawing a bird, before carving out its mass and structure. Finally the guide will cover the fine details, such as the facial features, feet, and most importantly, the feathers. There are also tips on how to draw a bird with its wings open. And when you've finished, we've got a brilliant selection of other how to draw tutorials to get stuck in to.Note: having a photo by your side for reference to observe a bird's subtle angles and details that can be easily missed is highly recommended. This simple drawing of the bird skeleton shows the similarities to the human skeletonIt's often thought that a bird's knees bends backwards, but in fact, what we consider as a bird's legs, are actually the joints of the heel and toes. When a bird uses its legs, it's designed to move mainly at its knees. Birds' hips don't rotate like ours do, so their knees act as a hip joint.The proportion of each basic shape can determine what type of bird it isAll birds have the same basic skeletal structure but with different variations in size and shape depending upon the species. One way of simplifying the skeletal structures is to divide it into six parts; the head, beak, neck, torso, legs and wings. Just by changing the proportion of each part, you can draw any type of bird.Draw in simple shapes first, before adding any limbsDraw a big round oval for the torso, and a circle that's half the size for the head. Divide them into quarters so that later on it will be easy to locate landmarks on the body.The simple lines determine the length of the beak and tailDraw in a curved neck from the head, attached close to the top of the oval. Form a balloon-like shape to the head and torso to find the overall shape of the beak and tail. The simple lines will help to find the mass of the wings and legTake the centre of the torso to draw the legs. The toes have one long middle toe, two shorter ones on each side and one in the back. The length of the legs should be roughly the same. The shoulders will start from the top of the torso, and the arms will bend like a 'Z'.The mass of the bird's head and torso looks like an hourglassConnect the head to the body. As the neck approaches the back and chest, the form of the body gets rounder past half way.The beak and tail are important characteristics of a birdThe beak is rounded at the top and slightly curved at the bottom, reaching back to the eye. Draw in a long rectangular shape for the tail.Draw simple shapes in this stage for the complex legs and wingsDraw the overlaps of the flank and leg over the body to add some perspective. The legs and toes form like thin twigs. The toes curve upwards with a bulb at the tip.There are small indents where the beak connects to the headFollow the underdrawing to draw the head. Indicate the nose just where the beak and head meets. The lower part of the beak also has an indent similar to the shape of the nose indent. Small feathers tend to be more visible on the under tail covertFollow the rest of the under drawing to draw the body. Draw some feathers in areas that stick out of the torso.Watch out for the small details in the eye and feetDraw in beady eyes with a dark pupil and small white highlight. The joints are relatively boney in the toes, so draw them more rigid. Following the form of the toes, draw some lines wrapping around. At the top of the bulb, etch in some thin sharp claws.The wing comes in three sections, with three layersThe wing comes in three major sections. The scapulars, secondaries, and the primaries. If you look at the feather direction, they are anchored from the structure on the wings. When you break it down further, each section has three layers of wings. When the wing is in a resting position, the feathers will fold and overlap – like a fan tucks itself away neatly.Drawing overlapping areas with darker outlines helps add perspectiveMake sure you follow your photo reference to avoid stiff and repetitive feathers. To avoid the feathers looking too complicated and messy, draw a thinner, lighter line to suggest the overlaps.The finished bird Draw the basic shapes before adding in the feather detailsTo create a sketch of a bird with its wings open, draw the skeletal structure of the wing and the feather directions. On this under surface of the wing, there are only two sections and two visible layers of the feathers overlapping. The wing lining, which consists of smaller feathers, covers the longer feathers.Look at reference to add a more interesting variety of feather linesThe layering of the feathers should start from the top, with the last feather at the bottom of the stack. Lastly, add the back wing to finish the drawing. Your bird is now ready to take flightRead more:
How to draw a bear
So you want to draw a bear. Learning to do so can be a really useful and engaging activity, even if you don't necessarily want to use images of bears in your digital artwork or illustrations straight away.Learning how to draw animals – like bears – will provide plenty of inspiration that can be incorporated into your artwork and can also help you with your anatomy work. For more on animal drawings, check out our tutorials on how to draw a horse and how to draw a cat.In this tutorial, I start by working quickly and using broad, light pencil marks to find the animal's gesture. This is especially key when drawing from life, where animals move about as you draw. So, get your best pencils at the ready as I reveal how to draw a bear in five simple steps.Keep your arm loose and move quickly – this is the messy stage!I begin with a light sketch – I don't want to make any solid marks or bold lines yet, I'm just finding the shapes of the animal's form. I will break this initial sketch into a wire skeleton and shapes to start. This is the foundation of my study.Build up the form with repetitive, fluid strokes to keep the drawing full of motionAs I begin to build up my drawing, I'll draw through forms. This means that I'm not worried about forms covering each other, but rather I begin to see through them. This helps to keep the drawing fluid and keeps me aware of where the forms are overlapping in space. I'm also looking for landmarks, such as the scapula and knee caps, to help me locate the anatomy of the animal as it develops on the paper.Locating the joints and major muscle groups helps to keep the sketch accurateThis is where my experience in drawing real-life animals frequently helps. I'm able to locate and find a variety of different muscle groups based on both my previous studies and memory.However, I'm always sure to really look at my subject so as not to miss out on what's actually in front of me. Locating the joints and major muscle groups can also help with fur placement and rendering later on.Now that I've got a solid blueprint in place, I can begin to add in some quick values. Here, I'm imagining a light source above the bear. If you need a refresher on values, see our post: everything you need to know about tonal values.This stage is where heavier lead comes in handy. I tend to alternate from HB and B lead, but you can use what you’re comfortable with. I'll draw with these heavier pencils to nail in those lines, and flesh out the forms of the muscle groups, too.Now I can begin to suggest a few details here and there. Every animal has a different set of proportions and small details that make that species unique, and every species has unique individuals.It's important to pay attention and really see what's there. I'm also interested in adding in markings or any other distinguishing textures or features in this step.Related articles:
How to draw a cat
If you want to know how to draw a cat, this is the right place for you. Drawing animals can be tricky but it's also lots of fun. In this tutorial, we will show you how to draw a cat so that it looks realistic and convincing, even in sketch form. To make your image look as lifelike as possible, we will walk through each stage, covering observation, quick sketching, recognising the structure and, finally, refining your image.Many artists think that because animals are so flexible and furry, not much attention has to be paid to their structure and anatomy. But the top tip for drawing an animal is to maintain a good understanding of the structure underneath the fur. So, let's take a look at the steps you need to follow to learn how to draw a believable cat.Cats all move in predominantly the same waysThe best way to familiarise yourself with a cat's anatomy is to find a number of photos of cats in random positions – the more positions you can find the better. This helps you form a better understanding of how cats move, sit, jump, and so on. You can also observe your own pets. The important thing to understand is that no matter their shape or size, all cats move in pretty much the same manner.You learn better by sketching than just lookingTry quickly sketching some of the poses from your references. Don't focus on the precision of the lines but try to quickly capture the essence of the moves. These initial sketches will give you a better idea of the cat's structure because we learn quicker by drawing rather that just observing. To benefit from this exercise even further, you may want to slightly exaggerate the movement of the cat similarly to in cartoons. This can help you better understand the movements of the animal and the way their bodies work.Choose what you want your cat to be doingWhen you've done some sketches, it's time to choose a pose. I decided to go for both a walking pose and a side view. This will show off the anatomy of the animal and make for a nice clearer demonstration of the drawing process.Simplify the skeletal structureTo find the structure, you need to start with drawing a proper cat skeleton. You can find many drawings of an anatomically correct skeleton online, but these will include much more information than you really need. Observe the proportions between skull, ribcage and pelvis as well as the distances between them. Notice how many joints cats' front and back legs have and which way they bend. Observe the tarsus bone in the back leg, protruding backwards – this plays a big role in how this part of a leg is shaped. Now draw out a simplified version of the skeleton. If you work digitally, draw your skeleton sketch on a separate layer. If you work in pencil, draw lines very lightly so that they don't overpower the final drawing, you can always erase them later.Work to establish your cat's proportionsThe next step is to add some muscles to your skeleton. As before, I'm not suggesting drawing all of the muscles – this stage is about capturing the shape of the cat and establishing its proportions. Use broader strokes to find shapes of the legs and pay attention to how the flow of lines changes around joints. Make sure the shapes feel full and vigorous and avoid wobbly or uncertain lines. Under all their fur, cats are very muscular and sturdy. Details like this will help your cat appear more lifelikeSince we're drawing our cat in motion, each leg is performing a different task and carries a different load of weight. The back left and the front right leg are carrying most of the weight and help the cat with its balance. The other two opposing legs are more relaxed. The front left paw – while it still carries a bit of weight – is reaching out forwards to establish another step. The back right paw is finishing the previous step and is about to be lifted off the ground completely. Paying attention to details like this is key to creating a lifelike drawing.Don't fall into the trap of drawing what you think a cat's face looks likeGetting your cat’s head in proportion is very important. Make sure you pay attention to proportions between ears, eyes, nose and mouth – it’s easy to fall into a clichéd approach, and give your cat a really big nose, large eyes and cute small ears. Depending on the species of cat, the size of the ears can vary. In this case the ears are bigger than you may think, so make sure to compare them with the rest of the head. Also notice how the head connects to the neck, and how the neck extends into the chest. Cats' eyes can appear bigger than they really areCats' eyes often seem bigger because of the colour or patterns of the fur around them. In addition, the irises extend over the whole visible part of the eye, which also creates the feeling that the eyes are very prominent. Time to start using more defined linesNow is the time to draw with thicker, darker and more defined lines. If you’re working traditionally, swap to a thicker pencil and use more pressure. If you’re working digitally, switch to a new layer while keeping previous layers on a lower opacity. Refine the shapes of the eyes, mouth and nose (notice how this resembles the letter ‘T’). Add pupils to the eyes. Depending on the cat you may choose to sketch the eyes more narrow or more open. Don't forget about the whiskers – they make a huge difference!Thickness of fur will vary over the cat's bodyNow you have the anatomy in place all you need to do is add a layer of skin and fur to the body and refine the shapes of the head. Remember that, except for a couple of species, most cats have fur all over their bodies. Cats’ fur tends to vary in thickness depending on the body part it’s covering: it's shorter around the head and paws and gets thicker and longer in the body, especially on the belly and tail. Use small strokes to indicate texture. Also notice how the skin behaves on the animal depending on the position it’s in. In this pose, on the front left and back right leg the skin gets stretched, while behind the right front leg it wrinkles. Remember any patterns will wrap around the bodyIf the cat you're drawing has characteristic patterns on their fur, add these on top. Erase the more prominent sketch lines (if working in pencil) or turn off the sketch layers (for digital artists). In this case I decided to draw stripes on my cat. Be careful how dark you draw features like stripes, as they can quickly overpower the whole drawing. Use subtle shading lines, and make sure to follow the forms of the cat's body. Drawing fur patterns – especially stripes – can add a lot of depth to your sketch. However, if done incorrectly, it may unintentionally flatten the image. Try to vary the length, width and shapes of your cat’s stripes. They usually get thicker on the tail, body and upper limbs and thinner around the head and lower paws. Last but not least add a little shadow under your cat's paws to indicate the ground and you are done!Read more:
How to draw a lion
Hear someone say 'King of the jungle' and there's one animal that immediately comes to mind. One of the largest, strongest and most powerful felines in the world, lions have earned their status as rulers of the lands in which they inhabit. In order to convincingly capture these majestic creatures when learning how to draw a lion, it's vital to pay close attention to cat's proportions, muscular definition and facial structure. This step-by-step tutorial will guide you through how to draw a side view of a male African Lion, starting with the skeletal structure, then sketching in form, and finally adding details to create an accurate representation of a lion. The tutorial will also touch on the best way to depict a lion roaring. You can follow the video above and the steps below.Note: it is highly recommended that you have a photo reference of a lion by your side when following this tutorial to observe subtle angles and details that can be easily missed.Once you nailed learning how to draw a lion, be sure to check out our brilliant selection of other how to draw tutorials. Using the measurements of the torso will help find different body proportionsDraw a big oval for the rib cage, and etch in small marks to divide it in half. Use a circle as the head placed to the left, about half the size of the oval over but not higher than the top of the ribcage. Draw in a thimble-like shape angled down to capture the muzzle. The spine has a slight curve from the ribcageFrom the middle of the head, connect the neck to the body with an 'S' curve cutting through the ribcage to the back of the body. Make sure the arch in the back is not too rounded. Take the measurements of half of the oval and draw in the hips to the right of the ribcage as a skinny rectangle tilting forward. Stagger the feet so the pose looks less stiffThe lion is two times the height of the body and head combined. Draw small triangles as paws in front of the ribcage and behind the back of the hip bone. The scapulas are big seed like shapes that stick up higher than the spine in the standing pose. From the spine connect the arm back to the elbow, but no lower than the ribcage. Draw the rest of the leg dropping down to its paw, giving it a very subtle 'S' curve.The top of the spine, hip, elbow and heel will be visible boney areasAt the lower half of the hip, draw the leg coming forward down to the knees no further than the hips. The legs should come all the way back past the hips, followed by the foot straight down. The long curled tail droops down to the ankles. The simplified skull help find landmarks for the eyes, nose, and mouthFlatten out the top of the head where the circle and line meets. Just below is where the eye socket sits. At the back of the skull, a small part should be sticking out, whereas the front has a groove carved out for the big nose. Follow the outline of the jaw as it cuts up into the cheek bone, which sits directly below the eye socket. Draw in the massive teeth in the front of the skull.Add volume to the muzzle, cheek and brow area to make the head more dimensionalThe lion's neck contains a lot of muscles, so draw a curved line to give it some volume. Place big eyebrows sitting right above the eye to give it that hooded look, and draw the eye as a simple pie shape. The nose should look round and full. Do the same with the mouth, try to draw the muzzle containing all of its massive teeth. The front of the chin will stick out to look like it has an underbite. The corner of the mouth has lips that droop down to overlap the connection to the jaw. Lions have extremely strong biting strength that comes from their jaw muscles, so the back of the jaw is rounded. Complete the head by adding in some round ears.The front leg is built up of a lot of muscles so make them look stronger by drawing the upper section bulkyDraw an overlap of the boney shoulder from the body and neck. The form of the upper arm will swoop from the scapula down to the elbow. Make sure to have the arms look strong and broad. The rest of the leg will taper down to the wrist and paw, reaching down to some rounded finger tips. They shouldn't look pointy like a wolves paw since lions are able to retract their claws. Watch for overlaps in the arms to make them look more three-dimensional and muscular.The hind legs will look slimmer relative to the front legsFollow the skeletal structure as you draw the back arch connecting to the hips, flowing straight into the back of the heel bone. The boney heel isn't covered in muscle so it will have a sharp corner. The top of the hip bone links right to the knee, and follows the rest of the skeletal structure all the way down to the toes. Take care that the back legs look in perspective, you may need to draw them higherTo finish off the torso, draw the belly sticking out a bit as it tucks up towards the back of the hip. And right where the torso and legs meets, it's connected by a layer of flexible skin . Don't forget to draw in the rest of the limbs in the back.Dividing them in sections will make it easier to draw the flow of the furOutline the size and style you want the mane to have. Male lions have these large bushy manes that stretch from the head down to the neck, covering the beginning of the back. This thick furry area not only helps the lion protect its neck in a fight, but also identifies their strength by making them appear larger, which can intimidate competitors. Not every lion has the same mane, so drawing out different sizes and style is a great way to bring out personalities in a lion. Add in subtle details like the iris, whiskers and chin hairNow that the mass is formed, let's add some details to the lion. As you draw in the face, filling in areas with darker bolder lines will really make the facial features stick out. Areas like the eye have a dark rim all around, with the inner corner of the eye filled in with black to give it that strong gaze. The nose and lips also are filled in with darker lines to capture the lion's important features. Follow the guideline to draw in the details of the mane, and add some hair to the back of the elbow.Draw the hatched lines in moderationThe majority of the lion's body is covered in very short fur so there's no need to make the lion look furry. Focus on drawing the muscle definition instead. When you want to add dimension and form to an area, draw a few hatched lines or draw in light lines along the form to imply there is a plane change. This method will help your drawing look more dimensional by applying it to areas like the round muscular arms, the different forms in the face, and the sharp boney areas like the heel and elbow.The size and shape of the jaw needs to stay consistentBringing back the skull we drew in the beginning of this tutorial, open the lion's jaw. Imagine the jaw hinges where the jaw and cheek meets, and swings back to open its mouth. Just like a human face, the areas between the nose and brows scrunch up to show rageWhen the lion lets out a big roar and opens its mouth, the fleshy areas of the face will stretch and squash. The upper nose and brows scrunch up towards each other to form wrinkles between the eyes. As the mouth opens, the upper lips reveal its teeth, and the droopy lips and cheek stretch out. The mane covers the chin and cheeks a little as they push back into the neckWhen you're done drawing in the face, draw in the rest of the mane to connect the face to the body.Read more:
Master the art of painting fur
Using bristle-type brushes, I paint big strokes that follow the volumes and fur direction. Then, without flattening established volumes, I use scattering-type texture brushes to blend elements and give the illusion of fur. Once I'm happy with the overall shape I blend the outer edges with the background using the Mixer Brush tool.Win clients & work smarter with our FREE ebook: get it now!
I paint using values and brightness to define volumes. If you colour pick a black fur photo, you'll see that the darks range between two and 30 per cent brightness, and the light areas between 31 and 70 per cent. Highlights could be in the 80 per cent range.Black fur is colourful, but the colour itself doesn't matter much as long as I'm consistent when keeping the temperature organised: cool colours in the light and warms in the shadows. This could be inverted depending on the overall colour scheme.I make sure the saturation of each area is consistent with its respective brightness. Saturation will depend on the light situation. I go with a rather saturated fur on mine, but whatever the overall saturation you chose, you should stay consistent. Keep the shadow more saturated than the light. Basically, the darker the area, the more saturated it will be.I draw each element's silhouettes. For the base fur, I use a cool colour at around 60 per cent saturation and 25 per cent brightness. On a new Layer that uses the silhouette layer as a Clipping Mask, I draw the shapes of the shadows. I keep my edges sharp, and think about the light direction and how it falls on the overall volumes and the subject's anatomy.I add some colour variations to the silhouette and then with Photoshop's default Chalk brush I start modelling the volumes and soften the shadow layer's edges. If the edges are created by a cast shadow they'll remain sharp; however, the form shadow's edges will be soft. To avoid losing the initial shadow shape I soften the edges using a Layer Mask.With the big default Chalk brush, I start painting. Ignoring details, I use broad strokes to model the volumes, following the hair's direction.  I also refine the silhouette. Because of my overall colour scheme, I use cool colours in the light and warm ones in the shadows. Black fur is actually quite colourful: the darker the colour, the more saturated it'll be. I don't use pure black.I'm nearly finished, and so take care not to kill established volumes. I use a Chalk brush and a small Bristle brush (1 and 2) to refine details, and some fur texture brushes (3 and 4) to blend things together. With the Mixer Brush Tool and a Fan brush, I blend the silhouette edges with the background. Finally, I use adjustment layers to unify colours and push the contrasts.Draw a couple of hairs to use as a brush preset. Define the Size and Opacity, set Scatter to pen pressure and the angle on the Direction setting. Set Count jitter around 50 per cent, Scatter on both axes around 100 per cent, and adjust the Size, Angle and Opacity Jitter.This article first appeared in ImagineFX magazine.Like this? Read these!
How to draw a dog
Today I am going to show you how to draw a dog. Even though the skeletons of dogs and cats are quite similar, especially in the simplified version I'll be drawing, it is good to remember that these animals move and look very different from each other. In this tutorial I will guide you through the whole process of how to draw a dog. We’ll be sketching an anatomically correct portrait of a German Shepherd, starting with sketches and moving on to drawing the skeleton, muscles and fur. If you follow all the steps you should be able to draw any dog in no time. For more advice, take a look at our roundup of tutorials exploring how to draw animals.
Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageMany people – especially those who are new to art – disregard the sketching phase and consider it a waste of time. Often they will draw one or two sketches and call it a day. It's very easy to be tempted to speed up this stage. After all, details are much more fun to draw, aren't they? The problem is, if we’re too eager to get to the details, it's easy to ignore the overall anatomy. And trust me on this: beautifully rendered fur on a creature that only partially resembles a dog will impress no one. If you own a dog yourself, observe how they walk, run, jump, sit or lie down. You may think you know how they move, but you really won't until you consciously observe the animal. You can also google some photos of dogs and use them as reference to quickly sketch different poses. Try not to spend time on details – the sketching phase is not about that. Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageFocusing on the skeleton is a key part of mastering how to draw a dog. Even though in the end no one is going to see it, it's essential to understand the skeleton and be able to draw it in proportion. As you become more proficient you may start drawing the skeleton more loosely or perhaps even be able to skip this step altogether because by then the proportions will be engraved in your memory. Before you move on to drawing the skeleton in your chosen pose, a good exercise would be to draw the structure on top of your previous quick sketches. This will help you become more familiar with the idea of a skeleton underneath all that cute fur that dogs are covered in.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageAs you sketch dogs in different positions you will soon realise which one appeals to you the most. Perhaps you'll choose to draw a dog napping, or sitting. For this tutorial, I’m going to use a walking pose as this shows the animal and its anatomy in the best possible way. Loosely draw the skeleton of a dog in your chosen pose. I tend to draw the skull, ribcage and pelvis bone, and use single lines to indicate the spine, tail and limbs. Dogs’ skeletons have many similarities with human skeletons. You can clearly see the equivalent of human knees, elbows, feet and hands. Dogs’ legs are not that different from our arms and legs – the only real difference is in the proportions of the bones. If you look closely you'll see that dogs walk on the balls and toes of their feet, sort of like a woman in high heels. Notice how opposing front and back legs carrying most of the weight of the dog. They are firmly placed on the ground, while the other two barely touch the floor.If you work in traditional media, use very light strokes for the skeleton, so that you can erase it later. If you work digitally, draw each step on a separate layer.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageThe point of this step is to establish the anatomy beneath all the fur. German Shepherds are not particularly fluffy, so the muscles will be visible through the outer coat. However, if you choose a breed such as an Afghan Hound or Bernese Mountain Dog you'll face a slightly bigger challenge finding the muscles under all the fur. It is important to understand how the muscles sit under the skin. Understanding the general rules will give you the tools you need to draw any dog, regardless of the hair length.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageNow it’s time to refine the drawing, beginning with the head. We want to start using stronger, more decisive lines at this point.It's very important to observe the correct position of the eyes. If you’re drawing a dog’s head straight-on, it’s fairly easy to maintain the correct proportions between the eyes and nose. However, drawing the face in a slightly turned view can be much trickier. Not only are the eyes now at a different angle, which changes their shape and size, but their position in relation to the nose also changes. It's important to remember that the eye that is further away from the viewer will not be the same size as the one in the foreground. Perspective means the closer eye will be slightly bigger. Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageLike many other dogs, German Shepherds have quite long muzzles. Even pugs, which don't have prominent muzzles, don’t have entirely flat faces. The length of the dog’s muzzle will vary depending on its breed, so make sure to observe this carefully. Making the muzzle too long or too short will drastically alter the likeness of the dog. Remember that in a three-quarter view, the muzzle will appear shorter. Pay close attention to the shape and size of the nose as well. Most dog's noses look quite similar, but depending on the breed they can be bigger or smaller in relation to the rest of the head. If the dog has an open mouth they will usually show their teeth, gums and tongue, which is typically quite long and flexible.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageAs with the eyes, it is necessary to pay close attention to perspective when drawing ears. Observe the shape of the head and how the ears are attached to it. The ears are generally a mirror image of each other, but even when painting uneven ears (some dogs have one droopy ear, for example) they will stay a consistent shape at their base. In this example I have altered one of the ears on purpose to show you what I mean.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageWe already have a good idea of the musculature of the body, but on top of the muscles there is skin and fur. In some cases this can drastically change the look of the dog (think about how different certain dogs can look after they’ve been groomed). German Shepherds are still hairy in places, so where necessary use smaller strokes to indicate fur. The dog I'm drawing has thicker fur around its neck, under its belly and on its tail, but on the rest of his body, especially the head and legs, his hair is shorter. Avoid using the same kind of strokes all over unless it's a short-haired breed. When you're done, erase the underlying lines if working traditionally or turn off the skeleton/muscle layers if you’re working digitally.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageEvery dog is a little different, and their colours can vary greatly. This can still be shown even in a black-and-white sketch. Use varying pencil strokes when shading to ensure the coat pattern doesn't look flat. My dog’s hair is mainly brown and black. I didn't want to recreate all of the tonal values, so instead I sketched in only the black parts of the fur. I also used lighter strokes along the dog's back to indicate a light source hitting the fur.Click the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageFinally, I added some subtle strokes along the dog’s legs to give a suggestion of muscles showing underneath the fur. The idea is to convey enough information to give the dog character without having to shade the entire silhouette. The last touch is to add some shadows under the paws and voilà – you drew a dog!If you want to take your canine drawing skills further, we have more tips and tutorials for you:
How to draw an elephant
As the largest living land mammal on earth, elephants have quite the undeniable presence. At birth, elephants already weigh up to 200 pounds (roughly 90 kg), and in the case of a mature African Elephant, they carry the huge body mass of around 12,000 pounds (or 5,443 kg) everywhere they go, which explains why they have such bulky, sturdy structures and wide column-like legs. Elephants seem like an animal that would be fairly easy to draw just by constructing several big shapes together, but in order to realistically illustrate an African elephant, it's worth understanding their fascinating features, like the trunk, feet, and bone structure. By doing so, you'll start to notice subtle details that can be applied to capture a realistic drawing of an elephant. In this step-by-step tutorial, I'll be showing you how I approach a drawing of an African elephant's profile view. I'll demonstrate how to block in simple shapes and cover very basic anatomy structure to understand what lies under the skin. Then we'll carve out the mass and form of the body before diving into the details of the skin. The elephant's wrinkles and crevices are also important features we can't forget. Before you start the tutorial, don't forget to pull up your own reference as you follow along. And if you enjoy learning how to draw an elephant, make sure to check out our other brilliant how to draw tutorials. The two bumps on the back are equal in heightDraw a big circle and divide it in half. Take half the width of the circle to measure out the torso to the left. Form a bean like shape and make sure the belly side slopes down to the right. The column like legs support and balance the heavy bodyTake the middle of the torso and duplicate the height of the bean to measure the distance to the ground. Divide the torso into three parts; the shoulder, stomach and hip. Block in long rectangular legs tapering in towards the bulging foot like a tall glass shape. The back legs will look more like an hour glass with the middle taped in.The trunk has a subtle S curve and the tip curls to avoid touching the groundDraw a rhomboid shape for the head that's as wide as the shoulder width. Divide it into quarters and draw the trunk starting from the middle of the head. The trunk comes out touching the tip of the head and droops down to the ground. The tusk's length is determined by their age; the older they are, the longer the tuskFill in a circle for the eye a little lower and left off the centre of the head. Right below the eye, follow the centre guideline to draw the long curved tusk. The skin will overlap right at the bottom of the head shape. The ear will look like big butterfly wing-shapes that covers the entire neck and droops down past the chin, and tucks right up to the centre of the head. The tail will hang down past halfway to the ground.The spine protrudes out, which gives it the pronounced bumpsThe spine runs flat along the back to support all their weight and bears the massive ribcage that takes up majority of the torso. The scapula wraps around the rib cage and comes up as high as the spine.Padded cushions in an elephant's feet help take pressure off their jointsThe shoulders attach at the bottom of the scapula and anchors to the elbow joints. From there the bone drops straight down to the big wrist. Look at an elephant's foot, they only walk on the tip of their toes. The round disc like feet are in fact stuffed with very thick padding behind the toes. The wide surface area helps to balance and support their weight. The knee placement should be a little lower than the elbow jointThe hip bone attaches to the back of the spine and sits very close to the ribcage. The legs connect from the bottom of the hip and come down to the knee joint, right where the torso attaches to the legs. The back feet are a very similar shape to the front feet, only the back will have a heel sticking out.The jaw is not visible from the front view since the base of the tusk is wide enough to cover themAfrican Elephant's signature tusks are equivalent to our front incisor teeth and their nasal structure is located right above the eyes. The cheek bones protrudes out so much, the dip in the side of the head becomes very visible and gives them the sunken cheek look as the skin wraps around the jaw.The tusk and trunk are joined together to act as the top lipStart with a flat head with a strong break for the forehead. Right over the nasal cavity, draw a subtle bump as it reaches the eye. The nose should then bump out again with a stronger arch. The nose will be a tube-like shape that tapers in as it get close to the tip. The trunk wraps around the tusk where the skin folds overlap. Drawing lines to wrap around the form will help understand the structure of the headThe corner of the mouth forms right where the tusk ends, and the bottom lips tucks under. The cheek bones have a strong plane change which makes the side of their jaw and head look sunken in. The base of the ear should feel like there's volume to it, whereas the rest should look like a thin sheet.To contrast the belly, the spine protrudes out forming a sharp archExpand the middle torso as a big bulbous belly. Make the legs look like big columns, but show the bulgy joints. For the elephant to have mobility in its legs, there needs to be enough loose skin between the torso and the legs. Draw the tail, and the legs covered in the back.Concentrate the wrinkle formation at the joints; elbow, wrist, ankle, knee, tail, and even around the faceJust like your finger joints or elbows, you will see the elephant's skin is similarly wrinkled and bunched up at the joints. The trunk is like an accordion where it has the freedom to move, bend and curl. It has rings of deep crevasses that fold into each other, and kind of resembles a slinky.Areas that need a plane change can be implied by etching in multiple lines that follow the formWhen you draw the wrinkles, remember to add a variety of length and thicknesses. Try to vary up the distance from each other, depending on how tight the wrinkles fold into each other. Cross-hatched wrinkles will also give an elephant's skin more textureDraw the hair coming out from the end of the tail from two sides, and make sure to draw the ears as big thin sheets with veins running along them. The fingernails shaped like a crescent will sit flat against the feet. The values will help define the volume and form of each body partIf you want to push the drawing a bit further, emphasise the elephant's shapes by filling in the light and shadow. Areas that sticks out like the spine and cheek bone will catch more light, while other areas such as the jaw and belly will hide in the shadow.Read more:
How to draw a wolf
If you've mastered how to draw a dog, you'd be forgiven for thinking you'd easily be able to draw a wolf too. While depicting man's best friend will stand you in good stead when approaching how to draw a wolf, there are more differences between these canine breeds than you might think, all of which will make a huge difference to the accuracy of your drawing. This how to draw a wolf tutorial is a step-by-step video guide to drawing a side view of a standing wolf. The lesson begins with sketching out the overall shape of the wolf as an underdrawing to help figure out where all the parts of the body will go. Next comes carving out the mass and structure of the wolf in perspective to solidify the drawing before the real fun – fur, facial features etc – begins. Once you've nailed the basic drawing of the wolf using the video above and tutorial below, stay tuned to discover how to draw its winter coat. And when you've finished, we've got a brilliant selection of other how to draw tutorials to get stuck in to.Note: having a photo reference of a real wolf right by your side during this tutorial is highly recommended. The head starts with a simple oval, with a muzzle and ear attachedStart off by drawing the head as an oval tilted to the left about 45 degrees. Connect the muzzle pointing down in the same direction, almost as long as the oval. The bottom of the muzzle goes flat across, half way to the oval just below it. Block in the shape of the ear by drawing a line as the base of the ear on the head, forming a triangle above that's slanted forward and curved in the back.Measure using existing shapes to help you find the length and widthLocate the base of the neck by measuring the length of the oval head two times sideways. Relative to the body, a wolf's head stands lower than a dog's head, so make sure to draw the neck angled lower. The length of the back is three times the length of the oval and neck. From the neck, connect a straight line across to indicate the back.The neck and body are shaped like big tubesThe neck will be thick and full of fur, so draw the shape of the neck getting thicker as it goes down to the base of the body. From where the neck is left off, complete the body with a straight line for the stomach, all the way to the back and closing it off.Sectioning off the body helps indicate where the limbs goThe body is sectioned off into three parts; the shoulders, stomach and hind legs. The line that divides the shoulder section comes straight down, sectioning off a narrow shape. The line for the hind legs is like a forward slash, separating the section from the long stomach.Adding the limbs completes the basic shape of the wolfThe height of the wolf is about two times the height of the body, plus an extra one sixth. Draw the front leg with a curved front and straight back. For the hind legs, draw a long 'S' shape in the front, and tapered at the back stopping halfway down. From there, drop a straight line down to indicate the heel. The triangular shaped toes should look long and big. Draw the rest of the legs that are hiding behind the other front legs, make them slightly staggered to look more interesting and three dimensional. The tail shape is thick and long, dropping down to the heel.Draw over the first sketch to block out the head and featuresDraw the top of the head and muzzle flat, and block in the shape of the nose and chin following the base drawing. The chin has a subtle curve as it reaches the neck and mane. The ear is almost like a cone shape with a line in the middle to indicate the front plane. Indicate the cheeks connecting from the ear, down the head and across to the chin. Add the eye as a thin slanted diamond shape, drawn right above the muzzle closer to the front of the oval.Divide the forms of the front leg into more sectionsFollow the underdrawing to structure the neck, and add a small hump on top of the shoulder section. Draw a line that comes down to the elbow with a curl at the bottom. Mirroring the curl, draw the shoulder and section it off from where the legs starts. The leg tapers down to the wrist, connecting to the tube-shaped hand jutting forward. Then attach the paw formed like the shape of a puck. Draw out the chest located behind the arm, right under the shoulders. Repeat the same thing for the leg behind.Connect the body to the hind legsWhere the middle and hind leg section of the body meet is where the hip is located. Draw a line that runs along the shoulder to the back, dipping down to the tail as it passes the hip. From the chest, draw the stomach – tucking up as it reaches the hind legs.Finish the second drawing by adding the back limbsFrom the hip, draw a line down to the knee located where the stomach meets. The upper section of the hind legs is curve to the back of the knee, and tapers down to the heels. The heel should be located higher than the wrists. The back paws are just like the front, only smaller in size. Draw in the tail.Getting the sharp features in the face can really make the drawing more realisticThe top of the muzzle has a small bump right before it reaches the nose. The nose is big but make sure it's not too pointy. As the mouth runs across the muzzle, it tucks up a bit and straight across back to the eyes. Wolves' lips don't hang over that much, so draw the chin thin. The eyeball is shaped like one quarter of a pie, filled with a black diamond right behind. Add some lines to the face to add structure and make it more wolf-like. Add the details of the ear and a lot of fur around the neckDraw the ears big and rounded at the top. The ear is very furry in the inside, and short in the back. Make the mane and neck look full by adding plenty of fur along the underdrawing, adding some variety to the fur going in different directions. Be careful not to go too overboard on the fur, or it will get too confusing and break the structure. It's best to place the fur along the edges where the plane of the neck is turning away.The long legs and big paws are important in a wolf drawingAt the top of the shoulder section, the fur covers the bump at the top, shoulder and elbow. The front side of the leg has a subtle curve coming down, while the back has a bunch of smaller fur in the back. At the wrist joint, there is a small pad in the back that sticks out. The fingers of the paws are shaped almost like big long triangles. The front paw has a fifth toe on the inside and two long toes in middle.Adding subtle curves and lines makes the wolf look more structuredThe back dips down to the hip and comes right back up, and back down again to the tail. The fur in the stomach area goes in the opposite direction as it gets to the middle area. Draw some thin lines to define the visible muscle in the back. The top of the leg is much furrier than the bottomThere is more fur in the top section of the leg than the bottom, so draw the furry detail on the top and smooth lines in the bottom. Just like the front paw, draw the hind in a similar way, but smaller and with only four toes. Finish off the body by drawing the furry tail.The final drawing of the wolfThe areas where the fur grows thicker in the winterWhen drawing the winter coat, you can go over the top of the final drawing of the wolf with more fur around the majority of the body. When you add the thick fur coat, draw a variety of lines and shapes to make the wolf look fuller. Draw the fur in different sizes of chunks, lengths, and a variety of lines and shapes. The wolf with its full winter coatRead more: 
How to draw a nose
When learning how to draw people, one of the areas beginner artists often struggle with is the nose. Perhaps it is the diversity of shapes that we see every day that makes knowing how to draw a nose all the more difficult. In this tutorial, I will offer a quick step by step guide to how to draw a nose. I'll be using oil paints here, but I'm focusing on the core drawing techniques you need to know how to draw a nose in any medium.Use the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageFirst, try to establish the very basic anatomical shapes of the nose. At this point, don’t think about all the intricacies of the shades and highlights. Just focus on basic shapes: triangles, trapezoids and circles.If you're painting, it's helpful to start by tinting your canvas with burnt umber thinned with odourless thinner – this will help you judge the values of the painting better. Then use a small brush to add in your basic shapes.Use the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageYou can now make use of the basic shapes you’ve sketched and build on top of them. Looking at your reference, sketch in the tip of the nose and nostril wings. Keep in mind that the nose is predominantly made of skin resting upon cartilages or is made of dense connective tissue – therefore it has a very firm structure.Use the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageBlock in the main values of the nose – I'm using titanium white and burnt umber. Try and think back to the initial shapes you drew in step one and observe the direction of the light and placement of the shadows. Again, don’t get lost in details. In this step, focus on the basic shapes and values. Remember, however, that the nose openings are not just dark round holes – they have a structure.Use the icon in the top right to enlarge the imageOnce the block-in is done, move on to adding details. Now is a good time to observe all the things you have deliberately omitted. Look at the details that are a part of the nose’s shadows, as well as the highlights, and make sure you don’t make the nose 'too perfect'. Pay particular attention to the cartilage below the tip of the nose as this can easily be overlooked.Read more:
How to draw hands
Learning how to draw hands can be difficult. In fact, most artists find drawing hands to be a challenge. But, much like knowing how to draw people generally, or how to draw a face, it's a useful skill to have.The human hand is a complex and amazing piece of anatomy, and one of the most recognisable features in the whole of the animal kingdom – which is why studying how to draw hands accurately is crucial.In this tutorial, you'll learn how to draw hands. On this page, Brynn Metheney shares his simple step-by-step guide to drawing hands, including how to break down the forms of the hand into simple shapes like cylinders and spheres. Click through to page two for Stan Prokopenko's in-depth look at the anatomy of the hand – once you understand the underlying structure, you can learn how to draw hands accurately and confidently. The hand is comprised of bone, tendon, and lots of connective tissue as well as muscle and fat. It’s a very strong and flexible appendage. It can be helpful to sketch out skeletal studies of human anatomy in general but, when learning how to draw hands, a lot of the form we are used to is lost at the skeletal view.If we then overlay a surface view over top of the skeletal view, we can begin to appreciate where the skeleton sits inside our own hands. Click through to page two for an in-depth look at the anatomy of the hand, so you can start to understand how the mechanism works.You can use my image as a base to draw this step over (hit the icon in the top right to enlarge it). From our skeletal view, you can lay in broad shapes to build the hand. Use a flattened wedge like shape for the palm; rectangles for the digits and a teardrop shape for the thumb.When figuring how to draw hands, simplifying the forms like this will help take away the pressure of rendering out a perfect hand from the beginning. From here, you can begin to fill out the shapes into 3D forms to help us build the hand and pose it in perspective.Now you can begin to turn the forms to make the hand feel more 3D! Our flattened wedge for the palm gains another dimension, the fingers become cylinders and the joints become spheres. We're going to call this view the planar view.By drawing through our forms, we can also show volume as I've done here with the palm pads. This is also a good time to work on proportion and placement. Notice how the palm is about as long as the middle finger (the green lines indicate this). Remember that the fingers are never the same length or perfectly straight. What sells this is imperfection.Note the blue lines indicating the angle at which the fingers end. We can also see that the middle finger stems straight from the middle of the hand. Paying attention to these proportions will help you ensure your hands look natural and accurate.By breaking the hand into simpler forms and using contour to explore volumes, you can start to arrange the hand in a variety of poses without worrying too much about detail. Once you've drawn out the 3D version of your first hand, you can try out some poses of your own. I've used my own hands as reference here, but used the planar view to help keep it simple. This way I can quickly draw out poses of hands without worrying too much about detail. In creating this tutorial, I found myself looking at my own two hands quite a bit. However, if you need to use your own hands to sketch, you might need to ask a friend or family member to help out.Note the small diagram of the cylinder and sphere. Fingers can be unruly at times – it's best to keep them very simple and utilise 3D shapes to represent them at this stage.Now that you've had some fun with posing, pick a pose that you like and, using your own hand as reference, draw out your hand in the planar view. I've drawn in little cones that help indicate which way the cylinders are traveling. It can be helpful to do this so you're able to keep a grasp on where the curves of the cylinders need to bend.Again, I'm mostly concerned with keeping it simple at this stage and I’m not worried about detail. I want to capture proportion, perspective and volume. It's important to work lightly at this stage if you're using pencil.Since I'm working digitally here, I will knock back the opacity of the planar drawing to begin to find the forms I see on my own hand. If you're working traditionally, be sure to start out light and gradually build up volume and forms with heavier lead only toward the end of your study.From here, I can use the planar view as a guide to help me lay the forms of my hand as I look at it. I'm careful to take note of how the forms curve around each other and I'm also mindful of the silhouette of my hand. You can see where I've deviated from the pink line and instead used it as a guide to find where the forms turn in space.Now you can push back the first two layers, or switch to a heavier lead to begin to lay in those details. You can see how helpful the construction of both the planar view drawing and the gesture drawing really help me place details like wrinkles and creases in the hand. I can also begin to place fingernails and render out the side of the palm.Next page: An in-depth look at the structure of handsHow to draw hands using negative space
Want to know how to draw better hands? Try this pro technique, which uses negative space to help work out the shapes you need. It might just change your drawing life. How to draw hands: quick tips for sketching hands
Don't have time to learn the underlying skeletal structure of hands? If you need to draw a hand very quickly, this helpful tutorial will show you how to get sketching fast. There's also a screencast video, so you can follow along with the artist. How to draw hands: paint realistic hands in Photoshop
Hands often pose a huge challenge to artists and illustrators. Here, you'll learn how to draw a hand, with pro tips on how to paint hands effectively in Photoshop.
15 tips for creating characterful creature art
There’s really no limit to how much you can learn when it comes to drawing and painting animals. However, this workshop will be less about how to draw anatomy and technical approaches and more about how to boost your art and take it to the next level.Spending too much time working on mastering techniques and lead you away from prioritising stories and original approaches, resulting in strong painting skills, but fewer good ideas. Mastering the skill of creating personal art can significantly boost your own commercial artworks.This workshop will give you some useful tips and tools, so you can turn up your art and character designs a notch. After all, every artist wants the viewers to care about their art. Hopefully, these tips can help you make progress in that direction.I rarely nail a sketch at the first attempt, so don’t be afraid to produce several revisions. I’m a perfectionist (for better or for worse), so over the years I’ve developed a habit for revisions. It’s become a good habit, because I’m not only improving with every sketch I make, but I also end up with lots of versions I can go back to, merge together with a new one, and create the best possible results.Study yourself in the mirror, or record yourself on video. It’s beneficial to make creatures feel more human, which can be influenced by our own expressions. I like doing this, since I get an excuse to make funny faces without being questioned by people who think they know better.Watch photos, online videos and nature programmes, study your own pets. Why not try recording them in different situations? After all, a frozen frame from a video is much more authentic and natural than a staged photo.Your memories and life experiences are priceless. Find your inspiration and tell your own stories through your characters or creatures. What makes you smile, laugh or cry? Consider adding your own pet to your art, or maybe something funny and embarrassing? I tend to draw lots of horses, foxes and cats, since I used to be one of those typical girls who hung out a lot at the stable, and the fox is a common animal here in Sweden. And I see our two silly cats doing stupid things every day, so it’s hard not to get inspired by that!Take my piece with the tiger chasing the balloon for instance. It all started with that tiger alone, reaching for something. I wanted to try something different, and started thinking that it would be hilarious to paint something about a tiger and a scared balloon. Totally random! Asking “what if?” helps you explore more ideas, for creating interesting creatures and characters.The anatomy doesn’t have to be 100 per cent perfect. But it does still has to be believable. Luckily, many animals share similar anatomy, so you only need to figure out the significant features of the specific animal you’re drawing: proportions, posture, significant details and so on. The bones and limbs are attached in a similar way, so if you learn how to draw one animal, you’ll get a shortcut to a bunch of other ones, too.Try out different variations before settling on the final one. Think about the mood, and ask yourself, what do you want to say with your piece? Cute or romantic pieces work well with a sunny, backlit magic hour light, while dark, hard shadows may be more suitable to indicate danger. Study colour scripts for films to see how the studios have solved certain situations and moods. Using actual photos as a base for colours is also helpful if you want to create realistic lighting.Don’t get too caught up in browsing other artists online for inspiration. Sites like Pinterest or gallery sites like ArtStation are great for boosting your own inspiration, but I would always say to use your own stories and ideas as a base. This is something I’m constantly working on.I like art where you can see some kind of emotion in the characters, because that’s something we all can relate to. The characters or creatures can be cuddly, comforting, angry, sad… It doesn’t really matter, as long as you feel something. Take the painting I Love You Bro (above) for instance: some couples have said to me that they remind them of their kids, or even themselves.It all starts with definite body language, so try to nail that before diving into the details such as facial expressions. To help do that, try to imagine how your character would pose themselves if it didn’t have a face. I know that sounds a bit creepy, but it makes sense, since body language tells you much more than one might think. Play around with different poses in your rough sketches, then you’ll be able to pin-point which one will be the most suitable to tell your character’s or creature’s story.Prepare a sketch if it feels more comfortable, and then paint in all the default colours. Paint the eye, iris and pupils on separate layers with a Hard brush, to keep things nice and crisp. It’s helpful to do all this at the beginning, because it speeds up your process and you can set up a nice finish to your piece.Create a new layer, then lower the Opacity and paint in a white reflection. This is my favourite shortcut to make eyes feel more 3D. It works for sketches and really helps your characters look even more appealing, even though the rest of the lines are rough. Soften the reflection by erasing the bottom with a Soft brush.Create another layer below the reflection layer and set it to Multiply. Then, using a darker colour, paint with a Soft brush below the eyelids to create a soft shadow. This will make the eyes pop even more. Go back to your colour layers, and add some colour variations to increase the realism.With my Hobbit cats piece, people could relate to it because it was funny and familiar. I even used my own cats as models. Things just suddenly fell into place – my cats resembled Bilbo and Gollum! It’s not a coincidence that I painted this during the same time as The Hobbit was showing at the cinemas. The timing was perfect and inspiration struck hard.One way to make paintings or sketches look cleaner is to lock the Transparency on some of the layers and keep painting within brush strokes. I do this a lot to keep things nice and clean, and the brush strokes look much more confident. This technique can also be a lot of help when painting hair or fur. You’ll gain more control over smaller strains of hair, whiskers, eyebrows and so on.Try to think of your character or creature as one simple line of action and build the pose around that. This goes hand in hand with my tip on body language (see number 10). Straight lines indicate a more aggressive pose, while softer curves exude a sense of calm.Experiment and see what complementary colours work with your piece. I like to decide on one significant colour and let that be the most saturated one. And I pick a less-saturated complementary one to support it. The fastest way for me is to start with a monochromatic painting and save the bright colours to the last. Or just settle with the monochromatic scheme.This article was originally published in issue 140 of ImagineFX magazine, the world's best-selling magazine for digital artists – packed with workshops and interviews with fantasy and sci-fi artists, plus must-have kit reviews. Subscribe to ImagineFX here.Related articles:
How to draw a landscape with pastels
Soft pastels are a great medium to work with, because they enable you to draw and paint at the same time. You hold the stick of pigment in your hand and apply it directly on to the surface. The results are immediate and tactile. There's no drying time to hold you back, or brushes to swap around. In this article I'm going to show you how to create a pastel landscape, making the best use of the varied types and grades of pastel that are available.For this painting I want to capture the feeling of distance in the landscape by varying colour and tone. I need the rich and pure pigments of quality pastels, such as Unison, to go from saturated colours in the foreground to soft hues in the distance, with lights, mediums and darks of each colour.To focus on the tonal recession in the view, I do a sketch in charcoal and white pastel on neutral grey paper. I can see how the biggest contrast of light and dark is in the foreground, with soft grey mid-tones in the distance. This exercise helps me keep calm when I start to deal with colours.Thinking of tonal recession, I pick the pastels from the box and test each one by making marks on a sheet, hatching to combine them. By hatching the marks and letting the integrity of each colour show, I'm able to produce lively mixes. Experimenting with colour choices first means I can paint later with confidence.Using light blue, lilac/grey and cream, I sketch in the sky and far distant hills, using the pastels on their side, applying several layers and softening and smudging constantly with my fingers. These hills have to be subtle, soft and muted. By smudging the sky colours down into the hills I can make them appear even more distant.I introduce a soft grey/blue for the next hill, but still mixing and blending softly with the lilac and cream. I take each colour further down into the picture, so that they all intermingle and are related. I then hint at light greens and yellows for the far fields, dusting these into the blue hill to give it form. In the foreground the colours can become warmer, with yellows and greens growing progressively richer as they get closer to the viewer. Time for some stronger marks – there's no need to smudge so much now. If a colour looks too strong, I use the cooler distance colours to knock it back. I lay down some energetic marks for the foreground base.Sketch the foreground trees using sharper, more defined marks and darker shades of browns and greens. I use a deep brown for the foreground and a softer greyer brown for the middle distance. I also have a warmer red/brown for the very front of the picture, to emphasise the tonal recession. I use energetic marks rather than detail at this stage.Now the fun really starts, as I introduce a collection of more vibrant, saturated colours to enrich the field in the foreground by hatching these on as long grasses, without any smudging, I create a vibrant mix of hues and tones that blend optically. Blues, yellows, orange and warm brown are a contrast to the cooler distance.To bring the piece together, I hatch lighter areas to describe the curve of the field, and detail among the trees. I add lighter patches of yellow between the trees, and shadows and lights to the trunks. The joy of using good-quality pastels is that you can apply lights over deep darks to add sparkle.This article originally appeared in Paint & Draw issue 7; buy it here!Related articles:
How to draw a figure
Figure drawing is a fundamental skill for artists, but one of the hardest to truly master. In this article, I explain my personal process and offer some advice to help you improve your figure drawings. On this page we'll walk through how to draw a female figure. Jump to page 2 for a step by step guide to drawing male figures, or page 3 for a closer look at gesture drawing.Although having knowledge of figure proportions is important, bear in mind that these are only a guide. Trying to shoehorn every figure to fit an eight-head-high ideal is the recipe for an uninspiring drawing. To achieve style we need to work with gesture, the spirit of the pose, the fluid nature in line. If we take gesture too far, though, our drawing will look wobbly. To counter that we need to also work with a solid structure, but too much structure can make for a stiff drawing. Therein lies the great balancing act of figure drawing that we will explore here. Let's get started…Above you can watch an in-depth video tutorial, or read on for step-by-step written instructions on how to draw a female figure. After more drawing tips? Take a look at our guide to how to draw pretty much anything. Alternatively, get yourself kitted out with the best pencils around.Click the icon in the top right of each image to enlarge itFirst establish your basic proportionsStart with your attention level set to high. I use a small, two-finger wide piece of charcoal for my initial sketch. Draw the basic proportions, making any adjustments required – especially if you're working from a photo.Use a gestural grip for this stageStarting your figure drawing with basic shapes makes it easier to draw more sophisticated lines on top. Here, I've drawn the face using small shapes inside a big shape. This is two of my disciplines in action at once: big to small; and simple to sophisticated. Note the gestural grip in action. Drawing with our gestural hand enables us to use the rhythm of our arm rather than our stiff wrist to make our marks. It gives us the freedom to draw long fluid lines on the paper (for more advice, see this article on how to hold a pencil correctly).You don't need to copy exactly what you seeI'm constantly analysing the photo reference. On closer inspection, what appears to be a foot is actually the ankle twisting. I decide to draw the classic shape of a foot to make the drawing more clear. I'm improving what I observe in the photo in terms of artistic mark-making. Note how many times I exaggerate the curves to make the drawing more lively.Time to add some depthAt this stage I step back from the art to check the drawing has solid structure. I lay in broad tones with my charcoal. Remember, our goal here is to interpret the reference. If we gauge success on how close we copy, we'll end up with a stiff drawing that looks like a distorted photo.Blending the drawing means you can adjust anything you want toUp until now I've juggled gesture with structure. It's an okay drawing, but nothing stylish. This is the journeyman stage, from which we can stamp our own style. Using tissue, I blend tone into form, this also fades the drawing and gives me a second chance to draw better on top.Make some final tweaks to your figure drawingHere I'm making small structural adjustments and adding more tonal gestures. This second time around goes quickly – just a matter of minutes, which is a small investment for an hour-long drawing. From this point onwards, my quest is to further explore style in the drawing.Sometimes parts that are anatomically accurate will look incorrectI use shadows to push the gesture, but omit the shadow of the xiphoid process (the small bone under the pointed arch of the ribcage). It looks odd here. Even though it's correct, it violates one of my art laws: If it looks wrong, it's wrong, even if it's right!Push charcoal around rather than adding moreUsing a paper stump, I push around the charcoal that's already on the paper rather than lay more charcoal down. This keeps the drawing light and fresh. I'm also mindful to always be drawing even when blending. I use a sheet of paper to prevent me smudging the drawing.Think of the eraser as another drawing toolI 'draw' highlights with a kneadable eraser. I think of the eraser as a drawing tool rather than a correction tool. Slowly does it, especially in the early stages. Drawing fast is a false economy – if we rush a drawing then we inevitably spend most of our time fixing mistakes.Taking a break means you'll spot inaccuracies more easilyI take a short coffee break away from the drawing and come back with a fresh eye. A break helps me see the bugbears more clearly when I return. I see the breasts are too close in shape while the lower rib cage is too smooth. I make minor changes to both bug bears and am ready for the big finish.A chamois leather is useful for creating abstract marksI lay down a large swath of charcoal, then smudge it with a chamois leather cloth, playing with textures as I go. I learned of the chamois from Glen Vilppu a few years back and it's been part of my drawing arsenal ever since. Here I use it for abstract marks to ground the figure and add style.The figure here is reimagined as a vampireFor my image, I imagined a vampire in a bloodlust trance. With large charcoal sticks I draw abstract shapes then pencil in the breast plates and jewellery using hard erasers for highlights.
How to draw a dragon
First sketch a triangle for the head. Draw a line beneath the triangle for the mouth. Next draw two parallel S shapes from one side of the triangle for the neck and body. This is followed by two lines for the arms from the center of the S and then two lines from the bottom of the S for the legs. Next use consumate triangles to fill in the teeth, horns, and scales. 
Watch 'How to Draw a Bunny' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Bunny
The Complete Bunny Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw an irregular circular shape, a bit wider at the bottom than at the top. This will form the bunny’s head.
2. Draw the bunny’s ears. For each ear, enclose a long, narrow shape using a curved line.
3. Draw an oval beneath the bunny’s head. This will form the body.
4. Connect the head and the body using curved lines. On the bunny’s chest, overlap several curved lines to indicate fur.
5. Erase the guide lines from the bunny’s body.
6. Draw a curved line through the bunny’s body, nearly enclosing a circle. This is the bunny’s leg. Draw the foot, using a curved line to enclose a rounded shape beneath the leg.
7. Draw the bunny’s front feet. Use a curved line to enclose an irregular shape beneath the bunny’s chest. Then, enclose a second shape behind the first using a short, curved line.
8. Draw the bunny’s fluffy tail. Use a number of curved lines to enclose an irregular shape.
9. Add detail to the bunny’s face. Enclose a long, narrow shape within each ear. Draw a dot for each eye, perhaps leaving a tiny speck uncolored to indicate the shine of the eyes. Enclose a small round shape to form the nose, and extend a short line beneath it. From the short line, draw two short, curved lines to form the mouth. Then, enclose a rounded square beneath the mouth to outline the teeth. Draw a vertical line down the middle to separate the teeth. Finally, draw long, curved lines extending outward from the nose to form whiskers.
10. Color your bunny. Our example is cream colored, but rabbits come in a variety of colors and patterns – black, white, brown, grey, blonde, and spotted.
Watch 'How to Draw a Buffalo' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Buffalo
The Complete Buffalo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing three circles of different sizes. Notice that the middle circle is significantly larger than the others, and that some of the circles overlap. These shapes indicate the head, shoulders, and hips of the buffalo, and will help you to sketch the entire form.
2. Use a series of short lines to sketch the buffalo’s snout and beard. Notice the overlapping lines at the tip of the snout, and the “fuzzy” appearance of the beard, caused by short lines meeting in points.
3. Sketch in the top of the buffalo’s head. Above the smallest circle, enclose a furry, rounded shape, using a series of short lines that meet in jagged points.
4. Connect the head, shoulder, and hips using long, curved lines. This completes the animal’s back and stomach.
5. Sketch in the front leg. Notice that the shape is crafted entirely of short lines that meet in jagged points, giving the animal a furry appearance. Note, too, that this line continues all the way to the top of the shoulder.
6. Enclose the shape of the far front leg, again using a series of short, jagged lines.
7. Sketch the rear legs using curved lines. Notice the point that is the ankle on the back of the leg. Then, use straight lines to enclose the nearly triangular shapes of the hooves. Finally, extend two curved lines from the hips, and allow them to meet in a sharp point. Then, enclose a teardrop shape at the end and texture it with curved lines. This forms the tail with a tuft of fur at the end.
8. Erase the guidelines left by the original circles.
9. Extend curved lines from the front legs. Enclose them at the bottom using the triangular shape of the hoof. Then, draw a line down the center of each hoof. Next, detail the face. Shade small ovals for the nostrils and eye, and draw curved lines around them for texture. Draw short, curved lines to indicate the fur at the top of the face. Finally, use two curved lines meeting in a point to form the buffalo’s horn.
10. Color your buffalo. They are usually brown in color, but white buffalo have been known to exist.
Learn to draw more North American wildlife, such as deer, foxes, bears, wolves, and bald eagles.
Watch 'How to Draw a Beaver' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Beaver
The Complete Beaver Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing three overlapping circles. Note that one circle is noticeably larger than the others. This will form the beaver’s head and body.
2. Detail the beaver’s head. Use a curved line to form the ear, and additional curved lines to craft the top of the head, forehead, snout, and neck. Enclose an irregular rounded shape to indicate the nose.
3. Outline the foreleg. Use short, curved lines that meet in jagged points to outline the sides of the leg. Enclose the foot and toes using curved lines that meet in points, indicating claws.
4. Draw a curved line connecting the circles at the top, outlining the beaver’s back.
5. Draw the rear leg. Again, use short lines that meet in jagged points to outline the furry sides of the leg. Then, outline the foot using curved lines, with each toe concluding in a sharp point. Note the short lines that indicate the bend in the foot.
6. Erase the guide lines left by the original circles. Complete the beaver’s head and far ear using curved lines.
7. Extend two long curved lines from behind the beaver’s rear leg, and allow them to meet in a gentle, rounded point. This forms the beaver’s tail. Texture the tail using cross hatching – perpendicular curved lines making a checkerboard pattern across the tail.
8. Detail the beaver’s face. Add connected, curved lines to indicate the furry cheek. For the eye, draw a circle within a circle, and shade between them. Enclose a curved shape above each eye to indicate the eyebrows. Extend long curved lines from each side of the mouth to form the whiskers.
9. Shade the nose, and detail the inside of the ear. Use curved lines to sketch the far feet. Finally, texture the beaver’s fur using short lines.
10. Color your beaver. They are typically brown in color.
Draw a river for your beaver to live in, and check out our animal drawing guides to give him additional woodland friends.
Watch 'How to Draw a Black Cat' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Black Cat
The Complete Black Cat Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the cat’s head. Atop the oval, draw two triangles. These will form the cat’s ears. Draw a curved line from the tip of each triangle to the oval, detailing the inner portion of the ear.
2. Draw a curved line like a backwards “S” descending from the head. This forms the cat’s back. Draw another curved line, somewhat shorter, to form the neck and chest. Then, draw a “U” shaped line to form the bent leg. Use another “U” shaped line to connect the leg to the body, forming the foot. Draw a short line across the tip of the foot to indicate the toes.
3. Extend two sets of curved lines downward from the body, forming the front legs. The lines of the near leg should cross over into the chest. Use curved lines to enclose feet at the ends of the legs; draw short lines at the tips of the feet to indicate the toes.
4. Erase guide lines from the cat.
5. Draw two parallel, spiraling lines to form the cat’s tail. Allow the lines to meet in a rounded point.
6. Detail the cat’s face. Draw two curved diagonal lines, and enclose a rounded shape under each, outlining the eyes. Draw a small triangle at the inner corner of each eye, and shade an upside down, narrow triangle to form the pupil within each eye. Draw an upturned triangle to form the nose, and curved lines to indicate whiskers.
7. Draw grass using short, curved lines that connect in jagged points.
8.Draw the full moon. Outline a circle behind the cat’s head. Detail the moon with irregular shapes of various sizes, as well as curved lines.
9.Draw bats in the sky. Use curved lines to outline the shape of the head and the serrated wings. Erase guide lines as necessary.
How will you color your black cat?
Interested in discovering more furry, purry drawing guides? Check out our animal drawing guides, where you’ll find everything from easy cats, lions and tigers to cute kittens, oh my.
Watch 'How to Draw a Bear' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Bear
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle.
Draw another, smaller circle overlapping the first.
Draw two blunt triangles at the top of the circle.
Draw curved lines on each side of the head. Allow the lines to form blunt points, shaping the head.
Erase the guide lines from the head.
Draw two straight lines overlapping the snout.
Draw the nose using a series of curved lines. Draw a curved line beneath the nose. Connect the nose and the curved line using a short, straight line.
Erase the guide lines from the snout.
Draw a larger circle overlapping the first.
Draw a large oval beside the large circle.
Connect the oval, the large circle, and the head using a series of curved lines. Note the rising and falling of the upper line.
Erase the guide lines formed by the oval and the large circle. Outline of the bear’s body is now complete.
Draw the legs using a series of curved lines. For each leg, extend two curved lines downwards from the body. Allow the lines to draw nearer to each other at the bottom as compared to the top.
Erase the guide lines from the legs.
Outline a foot at the bottom of each leg using a curved line. Behind the front leg, draw a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points to form fur. Draw a short, curved line below the head.
Erase the guide lines from the legs and feet.
Draw several claws on each foot. To form each claw, draw a narrow triangle consisting of curved lines.
Draw two small ovals just above the nose. Within each oval, draw a small circle. Shade between the oval and the circle.
Detail the ears by drawing short, curved, triangular lines within each ear. Add the texture of fur to your bear. Draw short, curved groupings of lines, at times meeting in jagged points, across the face, chest, back, and legs.
Color your bear. In the wild, bears range in color from white, blonde, and tan to brown and black.
Watch 'How to Draw a Bunny' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Bunny Rabbit
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw 2 ovals for the head, a vertical one and a horizontal one. Make the horizontal oval a bit smaller.
Make a cross in the smaller oval. This will help to align the eyes, nose, and mouth.
Add two small ovals for the eyes, a triangle for the nose, and a simple mouth.
Now you can erase the lines inside the lower oval. Add rest of the facial features; the pupils for the eyes, eyebrows, and nose.
Next, make two big ovals for the ears.
Add two lines inside each ear.
Erase the bottom of the ears to finalize the drawing of the head.
Let’s do the body next. Draw 2 ovals, one bigger than the other, and a very small third one for the tail.
Draw 3 rectangles for the legs. Then, add three ovals for the feet.
Draw slightly curvy lines around the leg rectangles. Erase the inner lines. Your bunny drawing is almost complete.
Add the final lines for the belly, toes, and whiskers.
Color your rabbit.
Watch 'How to Draw a Bat' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Bat
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small oval. This will become the bat’s head.
Draw a curved line beneath the oval.
Draw a curved line on each side of the figure, from the sides of the oval to the bottom of the figure.
Draw two curved lines on the top of the oval, extending to the sides.
Draw a curved line across the figure just below the oval, intersecting the shapes enclosed beneath the oval.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original oval. You are left with the detailed outline of the bat’s face.
Extend a series of short, curved lines, meeting in jagged points, downward from the side of the face. At the end of the series, extend a longer curved line. This will form one side of the bat’s furry body.
Repeat the process of drawing short, jagged lines and a longer curved line on the opposite side to form a mirror image. The longer curved lines will meet at a point, enclosing the figure of the body.
Just above one eye ridge, extend two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point above the head. This will form part of the bat’s ear.
Repeat this process on the opposite side, forming a mirror image.
From the tip of each ear, extend a curved line downward toward the head, enclosing the form of the ear.
Draw a series of short lines meeting in jagged points across the bat’s chest; repeat to form a mirror image. This gives the detail of fur to the body. Near the bottom of the body, draw more jagged fur in a roughly “U” shaped curve. This will form the base of the bat’s legs.
Draw feet extending from the legs. For each foot, draw two curved lines slanting slightly away from each other. Connect the lines with two “U” shaped curves, forming toes at the same time.
To draw the wing, extend a long, curved line from the upper body. At the end of the line, draw an upside down “L” shaped figure, then extend another long, curved line. Draw several shorter curved lines from the wing tip to the body, allowing the lines to meet in triangular points.
Repeat this process on the opposite side to form a mirror image.
Draw a curved line parallel to the top line of the wing, from the body to the “L” shape. Then, extend two sets of parallel lines downward to the points on the bottom of the wing. Finally, extend another curved line from the “L” shape to the wingtip.
Repeat this process on the opposite side to form a mirror image. These lines indicate the fingerlike bones that support the bat’s wing.
Draw two large, oval eyes. Draw a smaller oval for the nose.
Within each eye, draw a small circle, and an even smaller circle within the first. Shade between the two circles. draw two lines between the eyes and nose. Draw a “U” shaped line within the mouth, and a curved line to indicate the tongue.
Color your bat. In nature, bats are generally black, brown, or even white.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a ​C​amel' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​a ​Camel
The Complete Camel Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the camel’s head.
2. ​Draw another, larger circle some distance from the first. This will help you to draw the camel’s body.
3.​ ​​Connect the head to the body by drawing the neck and shoulders. Extend a pair of parallel, curved lines from the head. Notice how the lines diverge from one another before connecting to the larger circle of the body.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​Detail the camel’s head. Use a series of curved lines to sketch the back of the head, the forehead, the snout, and lower jaw.
5.​​ ​Draw the rear legs, using a pair of curved lines for each. Notice how the shape of the leg widens at the thigh, and thins above the knee and ankle. Note, too, the pointed nature of the knee. Enclose the bottom of the foot using a curved line, and separate the toes by drawing short lines across the front of each foot.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw the camel’s front legs. As with the rear legs, use two curved lines for each. Notice that the lines are wider near the shoulder, pointed at the knee, and narrow at the ankle. Enclose the foot using a short, curved line, and use additional short lines to indicate the toes.
7. ​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the camel, leaving a clean outline of the animal.
8.​​​ ​Detail the camel’s face. Draw a backwards “C” shaped line to form the ear, erasing guide lines as necessary. Detail the ear by placing a smaller “C” shaped line within it. Draw an oval to indicate the nostril, and a small teardrop shape for the eye. Shade a small circle within the eye to form the pupil, and use a short, curved line above the eye to indicate the eyebrow.
9. ​Use two curved lines, meeting at a point, to enclose the tail. Draw a teardrop shape to indicate the tuft of fur. Give the tuft a hairy texture by drawing curved lines down its length.
10. ​Color your camel. They are usually tan or brown in color.
Check out our other animal drawing guides for more furry fun.
Watch 'How to Draw a Goat' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Goat
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline the goat’s head.
Enclose an irregular shape on one side of the circle, using a curved line. This will form the goat’s snout. Draw a tiny oval on the snout to indicate the nose.
Draw a curved line, connecting the snout to the circle. This forms the goat’s lower jaw.
Extend a set of curved lines beneath the head, outlining the neck. Allow the lines to overlap in jagged points, giving the appearance of fur.
Erase the guide lines from the head.
Extend the curved line to form the animal’s back.
Extend a curved line from the other side of the neck, outlining the goat’s stomach. Allow the lines to overlap at times, forming the appearance of fur.
Extend a set of curved lines from the bottom of the head, meeting at a point near the chest. Allow the lines to overlap in sharp points, giving a hairy appearance to the goat’s beard.
Extend a set of curved lines from the body, forming the leg. Note how the lines overlap to form the appearance of fur, as well as the contouring of the upper leg, knee, and ankle. Draw a curved line at the bottom of the leg. Extend two lines from the curve, meeting at a right angle to enclose the hoof. Draw a small, narrow triangle to indicate the cleft of the hoof.
Extend a series of curved lines from the back, outlining the rump and rear leg. Allow the lines to overlap at times, giving the appearance of fur. Draw a long, curved line to outline the front of the leg. Draw a curve at the bottom of the leg, and enclose the hoof using two additional curved lines. Draw a small triangle to indicate the cleft, or split, of the hoof.
Erase guide lines from the goat’s body.
Use a long, curved line to outline the far rear leg. Enclose the hoof, and draw a small triangle to indicate the cleft.
Draw the far front leg using two curved lines. Draw two additional short lines to enclose the hoof.
Draw a curved line extending from the head, allowing it to double back on itself and form the ear. Erase guide lines as necessary. Detail the ear with an additional curved line. Draw the far ear using two short, curved lines.
Draw a curved, narrow triangular shape above the ear, forming the goat’s horn. Detail the horn by drawing short, curved lines across it.
Use a series of curved lines, meeting in jagged points, to enclose a tuft of hair on the goat’s head. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Draw the other horn using two curved lines. Detail the horn by drawing short, curved lines across it.
Detail the belly with the appearance of fur, using short, curved lines. Enclose the tail in a similar fashion. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Draw a series of ovals to form the eye, one within the other. Shade around the smallest oval. Enclose a second tuft of beard beneath the goat’s chin using short, curved lines. Shade the inside of the ear using several short lines, and draw lines of various lengths on the back, stomach, and legs to afford the texture of fur.
Color your goat.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Kangaroo' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Cartoon Kangaroo
The Complete Cartoon Kangaroo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two shapes – a circle to form the head, and a rounded, irregular bean shape to form the body. Notice that the shapes do not touch.
2. Connect the shapes using two curved lines, forming the neck. From the bottom and back of the bean shape, extend two curved lines that converge and meet in a rounded point. This forms the kangaroo’s thick, muscular tail.
3. Erase the guide lines left by the original shapes.
4. Draw the kangaroo’s arms. For the near arm, use a long, curved line. The line should pass outside the shape, forming the shoulder and upper arm, then back in, forming the lower arm. Double the line back upon itself, nearly connecting to its opposite end. For the far arm, use a “U” shaped line to enclose the lower arm.
5. Draw the legs. For each leg, use a long line to outline the front of the leg and top of the foot, then double it back upon itself. Use a short, curved line to differentiate the toes.
6. Using a number of curved lines, detail the face. Outline the snout, the cheek, and the lower jaw.
7. Erase guide lines from the head, arms, and legs. Erase a portion of the head to accommodate the next step.
8. Using a series of short, curved lines, enclose a tuft of fur on top of the head. Allow the lines to meet in points. Then, draw the long ears. For each ear, extend two curved lines upward, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points. Then, detail the ear by drawing another curved line down its length.
9. Detail the face. Sketch in the boomerang-shaped nose, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw an oval within an oval to form the eye. Within the smaller oval, draw a circle, and shade around it to form the pupil. Allow a curved line above the eye to indicate the eyebrow. Differentiate the fingers by drawing short, curved lines on the forepaws, and use two curved lines to indicate the shape of the famous pouch.
10. Color your kangaroo. Kangaroos come in two types – red and grey.
Check out our animal drawing guides to find more creatures from the Land Down Under, such as the koala.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Cow' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cow
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle.
Overlapping the circle, draw an irregular, circular shape.
Within the irregular shape, outline the cow’s snout using a series of curved lines. Enclose another irregular shape, and extend from it two additional curved lines.
Erase the guide lines from the snout.
Draw a curved line along the bottom of the head, forming the jaw. Draw two more curved lines along the top of the head.
Erase the guide lines from the head.
Extend three curved lines from the head, allowing the lines to meet in a blunt point. This forms the ear.
Extend three curved lines from the opposite side of the head, enclosing the other ear.
Draw a large oval alongside the head.
Connect the oval to the head using two long, curved lines. These lines will also outline the shape of the cow’s neck and back.
Erase the guide lines formed by the large oval.
Extend two sets of wavy, curving lines from the middle of the body. These lines will form the near legs.
Extend two sets of curved lines from the stomach. These lines will form the far legs.
Erase the guide lines from the legs.
Draw a hoof at the end of each foot. To draw a hoof, connect the leg lines using a diagonal, curved line. Then, extend a slightly curved line from the ends of each diagonal line. Allow the lines to meet at a rounded right angle.
Extend two long, parallel lines from the rear of the figure, forming the tail. Draw a teardrop shape at the bottom of the tail. Draw several curved lines running the length of the teardrop shape.
Draw a horn above each ear, using two curved lines for each. Allow the lines to meet at a point.
Draw an udder extending from the stomach, using a curved line with several “U” shaped protrusions. Draw spots on the cow, enclosing irregular shapes with curved lines.
For each eye, draw a curved line and enclose a semi-circle above it. Draw an oval within the semi-circle, and shade the oval. Draw a curved line above each eye. Draw and shade two ovals on the snout to form nostrils, and draw a curved line across the bottom of the mouth.
Color your cow. Cows come in many colors, ranging from black to brown to white, some with spots and others with stripes. Dairy cows are typically white with black spots, and pink accents on the ears, snout, and udder.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a ​C​at Face' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for ​a ​C​at Face
The Complete Cat Face Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing an oval to outline the cat’s face.
2. From each side of the oval, extend a long, curved line. At the bottom of the line, connect short, curved lines in a jagged zigzag pattern. This forms the cat’s cheeks, complete with tufts of fur.
3. Connect the tufts using a long, curved line, to completely enclosing the face. Notice the pointed bulge in the line indicating the chin.
4. On each side of the head, draw three curved lines extending outwards and meeting in a point – forming a curved triangle. This is the cat’s ear. Repeat on the opposite side.
5. Erase the guide line of the original oval.
6. Add detail to the ears. Draw a curved line within the ear, parallel to its exterior. At the base of the ear, use very short lines outline the head, giving it a furry texture.
7. Draw the cat’s eyes. For each eye, use two curved lines to enclose a rounded shape with points on each end. Shade the exterior points. Within the eye, draw a circle within a circle. In the smaller circle, draw two ovals of different sizes, giving life to the eye. Shade the smaller circle, indicating the pupil. Add depth by placing a curved line above each eye. For the eyebrows, form a curved shape using two curved lines – meeting in a point on one end and a blunt, rounded intersection on the other.
8. Draw the nose and mouth. Begin by extending faint lines downward from the eyes. This outlines the snout. Connect these lines by enclosing a small, irregular shape, somewhat like a rounded, upside down triangle. Beneath the nose, draw two curved lines in the shape of a wide “W” to form the mouth. Above the “W,” draw dots to indicate the growth of whiskers. Add depth to the chin by drawing a small curved line beneath the “W.”
9. Extend long whiskers – long curved lines – from the dots on each side of the mouth. Add the texture of fur to the forehead and cheeks using short, curved lines that meet at jagged angles.
10. Color you cat. Domestic cats come in a wide variety of colors – solid white, orange, black, or grey; stripes of black and grey, called tabbies; striped shades of orange, called marmalades; or even spots. White cats with black and orange spots are called calicos, and Siamese cats typically have cream colored fur with brown noses and ears.
If you like to make more cat drawings, check also the Simple Cat and Cartoon Cat drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Squirrel' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Squirrel
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval to outline the squirrel’s head.
Beneath the oval, outline the jaw using a series of curved lines. Allow the lines to meet in jagged points, forming the appearance of fur.
Connect the jaw to the oval using a short, curved line. Outline the top of the jaw using a rounded “M” shaped line.
Erase the guide lines from the face.
Outline the squirrel’s body using a long, curved line. Continue with a series of connected, jagged curved lines at the bottom.
Extend a short, curved line from the head to form the neck. Continue with a long, curved line to form the arm. Draw a series of curved lines parallel to this line, forming the opposite side of the arm.
Use a series of curved lines, connected at jagged points, to nearly enclose a circular shape at the bottom of the figure. This forms the squirrel’s hip. Draw a curved line for the back, connecting the arm to the hip.
Draw a curved line to indicate the hip on the opposite side, allowing for a little jagged fur at the bottom.
Draw a tuft of hair on top of the head using a series of long and short curved lines, allowing the lines to connect in sharp points.
Draw the ears by extending a set of curved lines on each side of the hair. Allow the lines to meet in rounded points.
Erase the guide lines from the ears and hair.
Draw a teardrop shape to form each eye. Within the eye, draw a circle. Then, draw a curved line across the bottom of the circle, and two smaller circles near the top. Shade between the small circles and the line. Draw a few short, curved lines at the top of each eye to form eyelashes.
Draw an upside down, rounded, slightly irregular triangle to form the nose. Draw a wide, rounded “W” shaped line to form the top of the mouth. Enclose an irregular shape beneath the peak of the “W”, and draw a line down the middle of the shape. This forms the squirrel’s large teeth. Draw a “U” shaped line to complete the mouth, and use two curved lines to indicate the tongue.
Give the squirrel an acorn. Draw a curved, rounded, narrow rectangle to form the acorn cap. Enclose a narrow cylindrical shape above the cap to form the stem. Indicate the far arm using a curved line. Draw the squirrel’s hand, using narrow “U” shaped lines to form the fingers. Finally, outline the shape of the acorn itself using two curved lines.
Erase the guide lines from the acorn.
Draw a curved line above each eye to indicate the eyebrows. Enclose each foot using a series of curved lines, allowing the lines to overlap and form the toes.
Begin the squirrel’s bushy tail by drawing a curved line from the hip to the face, and another extending from the side of the head.
Draw a series of curved lines to enclose the tail, some meeting in jagged points. Note how the lines at the top of the tail overlap, forming a cleft.
Detail each ear using two curved lines. Extend curved lines from the face to the arm, the arm to the hip, and the hip to the tip of the tail.
Color your cartoon squirrel.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cheetah' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cheetah
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small circle to outline the cheetah’s head.
Extend a series of curved lines from the head to outline the brow, snout, and jaw. Note the curve of the brow line, protrusion of the nose, and squared lines of the mouth.
Extend a pair of curved lines from the head, outlining the neck.
Erase the guide lines left from the original circle.
Draw the ear using two curved lines that meet in a point. Detail the inside of the ear using a series of short, curved lines.
From the lines of the neck, extend two more long, curved lines, outlining the back, hips, and stomach.
Draw the front leg using two curved lines, overlapping the lines of the neck and stomach.
Enclose the bottom of the leg using two curved lines. Note how the lines overlap at the foot, indicating the cleft of the toes.
Draw the far foreleg, beginning with a curved line from the neck to the previous foreleg. Then, draw the lower part of the leg using two curved lines, overlapping to form the toes.
Extend two curved lines from the hips and stomach, outlining the rear leg.
Extend the lines of the leg and enclose the foot, allowing the lines to overlap and form the toes.
Draw the far rear leg by extending two curved lines from beneath the previous leg. Allow the lines to overlap at the tip of the foot, forming the toes.
From the rump, extend a long, curved line. The line will double back on itself, enclosing the tail.
Draw a curved line along the brow. Beneath it, draw a shorter, slightly curved line to form the top of the eye. Enclose the eye below using a curved line. Draw another curve within the eye, and shade the enclosed shape. Enclose the nose at the tip of the snout using a short, curved line.
Draw dots just above the mouth, and extend curved lines from them. These are the cheetah’s whiskers.
Detail the face with curved lines on the top of the head, and irregular dots throughout. These represent the cheetah’s spots.
Continue drawing spots along the body and forelegs. Some of the spots can be dots, others spirals, and still others a dot surrounded by a spiral. These represent a type of spot called a rosette.
Draw spots and rosettes along the rear legs. Cheetahs typically have up to 2,000 spots.
Draw spots and rosettes along the tail, and give the tail two broad stripes at the tip.
Color your cheetah. Cheetahs are typically a sandy color, which, along with their spots, helps them to be camouflaged when hunting and blend in with the tall grass.
Watch 'How to Draw a Reindeer' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Reindeer
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline the reindeer’s head.
Enclose an irregular shape overlapping the circle to outline the snout.
Connect the head and the snout using short, curved lines.
Extend two long, curved lines beneath the head, outlining the shape of the body.
Draw the leg using a series of curved lines. Notice how the lines are farther apart at the top of the leg. Also note the bend of the knee and the curvature of the ankle.
Draw another leg using curved lines, again noting the sharpness of the knee and ankle joints.
Draw the far rear leg using curved lines, again noting the curve of the knee and ankle.
Draw the far front leg, again noting the curvature of the lines around the knee and ankle.
Draw the hooves by enclosing a rounded, triangular shape at the bottom of each leg.
Draw the ear by extending two curved lines from each side of the head. Allow the lines to meet in a point. Then, draw a curved line to form the top of the tail. Enclose the tail using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
Erase guide lines from the face, tail, and legs.
Within each ear, enclose a shape using two curved lines. This will add depth to the ear. Draw the nose using a series of curved lines. The nose should be shaped roughly like a rounded, upside down triangle, with depressions for the nostrils.
Draw the eyebrows using curved lines connected by a short, straight line. Draw a curved line for the smiling mouth. Embellish it at each end with short, curved lines, and connect it to the nose using a straight line.
Enclose the base of the antlers on top of the head using two curved lines. Then, draw two curved lines on the face to form the bottom of the eyes. Complete the eyes by enclosing an oval shape above each curved line.
Draw three curved lines around the neck, meeting at a point on one side and connected by a slightly curved line on the other. This forms the reindeer’s harness.
Draw circles all around the harness, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw two slightly curved lines down the center of each circle. These are the jingle bells.
Draw two curved lines down the deer’s neck, and another on the belly between the near legs.
In each eye, draw a circle with multiple circles inside it. Shade the innermost circle. Draw irregular circles and ovals on the animal’s rump to form spots.
Draw curved lines extending upwards from the base of each antler. Draw pairs of lines branching outward, like the branches of a tree. Enclose each set of lines using a short, curved line, completing the antlers.
Color the cartoon reindeer.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Cute N​arwhal' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​ Narwhal
The Complete Cute Narwhal Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the narwhal’s head.
2. Extend two lines from the circle in a curved triangle shape; the lines should not touch. This outlines the whale’s body and tail.
3. Erase the guide line formed by the original circle.
4. Using two curved lines, enclose the two lobes of the tail.
5. Draw two large circles to form the eyes. Within each eye, draw two small ovals of different sizes. These add a sparkle of cuteness to the eyes.
6. Draw a curved line above each eye to indicate eyebrows. Then, draw a “U” shaped curve between and below the eyes to form the smiling mouth.
7. Use a curved line to draw each pectoral fin, or flipper. The flippers should be roughly like a curved triangle with a rounded tip.
8. On the top of the narwhal’s head, draw a tall, narrow triangle with rounded points. This forms the whale’s spiral horn, or tusk. Band the horn with curved lines to indicate the spiral.
9. Finish off your narwhal with added cuteness. Draw small circles above the head for bubbles. Draw an oval under each eye to indicate blushing cheeks. Draw a heart on the flipper, and small curved lines above each eye for eyelashes.
10. Color your narwhal. In the wild, narwhals are whitish in color with mottled black or brown spots on the back. Would you like to give her some more cetacean friends? Doing so is easy and fun when you use our whale and dolphin drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Giraffe' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Giraffe
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw a small circle in the top left corner of your paper. The giraffe drawing is going to be tall, so leave enough space for the rest of the body.
Next, draw a line angling down from the circle. This will become the giraffe’s neck.
Where the neck ends, draw an oval for the front body.
Add another oval slightly overlapping the previous one. This will be the hindquarters. Make the oval slightly smaller and place it lower than the front body. Giraffes have a sloping back and their rump is lower than the shoulders.
Draw wireframes for the front legs. Add small ovals for the joints and hooves.
Do the same for the hind legs. The hind leg angle is slightly backwards from the body and has two visible joints.
Draw a curved line from the back of the body for the tail. Add a leaf shape in the end.
Next to the head, add another circle for the muzzle.
Now we will start adding flesh to the wireframe. Draw two curved lines parallel to the neck line.
Join the two ovals that make the body; the top curving line needs to have a small hump in the bottom of the neck. The bottom side is just a straight line.
Next we will join the head and muzzle. Draw a small hump on the top for nostrils and make the throat a little wider to make room for the jaws.
Draw two leaf shapes for ears.
Add two pin shapes on top of the head for horns and draw a wavy line for the mane.
Next we will draw the facial features. Draw the eyes and eyebrows, then complete the mouth and muzzle. Be very precise in this step as the face is critical for a good-looking cartoon drawing.
Draw legs around the leg wireframes. The legs are quite muscular and start from the top third of the body.
Erase all the inner lines and tweak the outline of your giraffe. It looks pretty good already.
Let’s add the final touches. Add another curved line for the tail.
Draw curved lines under the chest and body. A giraffe’s coat doesn’t have patterns in underbelly. Also, draw lines to separate hooves from the legs.
Draw random rounded squares and triangles for the coat pattern.
And finally, clean up and color your great looking giraffe drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Pig' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Pig
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a oval. This will form the pig’s head.
Overlapping the oval, draw an irregular enclosed figure, resembling a heart with a rounded bottom. This will form the pig’s nose.
Draw a curved line from the top of the nose, and a longer curved line below it. Draw two “U” shaped lines below the longer line to form the open mouth.
Draw a short, curved line from the top of the nose to the top of the oval, and a long curved line from the bottom of the mouth to the top of the oval.
Erase the guide lines left from the oval.
Draw the ear using a series of connected, “U” shaped lines.
Draw the other ear, using similarly curved lines.
To form the body, draw a large oval overlapping the back of the head.
Draw a long, curved line from the bottom of the head to the bottom of the oval.
Erase the guide lines left from the large oval.
Outline the legs by drawing two sets of curved lines. In each set of lines, the lines should be farther apart at the top than at the bottom.
To form the far legs, draw two more sets of curved lines extending from the belly.
Erase the guide lines from the legs.
Connect each set of leg lines using a curved line, then use two “U” shaped lines to form the hooves.
Draw a curly, overlapping spiral to form the tail.
Draw another curly line parallel to the first, erasing overlapping lines as needed.
Draw a partial oval above the nose, and a short, curved line beside it. Draw a second partial oval atop the curved line. These ovals will form the eyes. Then, draw a curved shape above each eye using two short, curved lines.
Draw two ovals on the nose to form nostrils. Draw a curved line through the mouth, and shade above it.
Draw two parallel, curved lines through each eye, and two small ovals beneath them. Shade the area around the ovals to form the pupil.
Color your pig. Many cartoon pigs are pink, but they may also be black, brown, white, or spotted.
Watch 'How to Draw a Hippo' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Hippopotamus
The Complete Hippo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by using several curved lines to enclose an irregular rounded shape. Notice that the shape consists of two bulbous portions, the lower larger than the upper. This shape outlines the hippo’s head.
2. Next, sketch in the nose and snout. Draw the base of the snout using a long curved line, bent as it crosses the head. Enclose the top of the nose using a rounded “M” shaped line.
3. Sketch in the hippo’s lower jaw. Use a curved line to connect the upper snout to the interior of the head. Then, draw another curved line from the edge of the snout to the side of the jaw, outlining the inside of the mouth.
4. Erase guide lines from the hippo’s head.
5. Draw a backward “C” shaped line at the corner of the jaw, indicating the cheek. Connect this to the top of the snout using a short, curved line. Above the snout, draw two eyes. For each eye, draw three ovals, one inside the other. Shade between the two smallest ovals to form the pupil. Above each eye, enclose a curved shape, using two short lines. Erase guide lines as necessary.
6. Use “C” shaped lines to enclose the ears on each side of the hippo’s head. Then, detail the inside of each ear using curved lines.
7. Outline the hippo’s body using two long, curved lines. The lines should outline an oval; notice how the lines do not connect, but instead form a parallel overlap. Draw a pair of curved lines extending from behind the head to detail the hippo’s back. Enclose the shape of the tail using two curved lines, connecting in a rounded point at the end.
8. Draw the hippo’s legs, erasing guide lines as necessary. For each leg, extend two parallel curved lines downward from the body. Notice how the lines diverge slightly to outline the foot. Connect the lines on the bottom using a curved line. Then, draw a loose and rounded “M” shaped line across the front of each foot, indicating the toes. Finally, draw a curved line beneath the head to detail the neck.
9. Detail the hippo’s face. Draw two large ovals at the tip of the snout; these indicate the nostrils. Draw a curved line through each nostril to give it a three-dimensional appearance. Then, draw a curved line down the center of the nose. Use curved lines to enclose each of the hippo’s teeth. Draw another curved line at the side of each to make them three dimensional. Finally, use curved lines within the mouth to indicate the tongue.
10. Color your hippo. In the wild, hippos appear grey or brown with pink accents. Cartoon hippos are often purple in color.
Watch 'How to Draw a Donkey' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Donkey
The Complete Donkey Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the donkey’s head.
2. Draw two additional circles, lower than the first. These represent the donkey’s shoulders and hips, and will help you sketch the donkey’s body.
3. Use curved lines to outline the donkey’s mouth. Extend a line from the first circle and double it back upon itself, forming the upper lip. Then, extend another line to form the lower jaw. Notice how this line enters the circle, curving to outline the jaw.
4. Connect each of the circles using long curved lines, outlining the neck, back, and stomach.
5. Draw legs extending from the shoulders and hips. For each leg, extend a pair of curved lines downward from the body. Notice how the lines bow outward to detail the shapes of knees and ankles. Enclose the bottom of each leg by drawing the hooves. For each hoof, use a curved line for the top and a straight horizontal line for the bottom.
6. Use two “U” shaped lines to sketch the donkey’s large ears. Between the ears, use short curved lines that meet in jagged points to enclose a tuft of mane. Use curved lines to draw the mane extending down the neck as well.
7. Erase the guide lines left over from the original circles.
8. Sketch the far legs, using two curved lines to outline each. Enclose the bottom of each leg by drawing the hoof. Then, extend two curved lines from above the rear leg, and allow them to meet in a sharp point. Beneath this, enclose a teardrop shape, and band it with curved lines. This forms the donkey’s tail, complete with a tuft of hair at the end.
9. Detail the donkey’s face. Use curved lines to detail the ears. Draw a curved line across the face, just above the snout, and shade a small oval to indicate the nostril. Draw a large circle to form the eye. Shade a smaller circle within it to form the pupil, leaving a tiny circle unshaded.
10. Color your donkey. Many donkeys are brown or grey. Some are dark brown or black with a white muzzle.
Would you like to draw more fun farm animals? Check out our horses, cows, sheep, pigs, goats, chickens, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Fox' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Fox
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the fox’s head.
Within the circle, draw two curved lines.
Connect the lines using two “U” shaped, curved lines. Draw another curved line beneath the first two. This will form the fox’s snout.
Erase the guide line from the snout.
Draw an irregular rounded shape within the snout to form the nose. Connect the nose to the mouth and sides of the snout using three short, curved lines.
Draw the fur of the fox’s neck and chest. Begin by extending a curved line from the snout. Then, use a series of short, curved lines, extending downward and meeting in sharp, jagged points.
Repeat this process on the opposite side, forming a roughly upside-down triangle shape.
Draw fur on each side of the fox’s head by extending short, curved lines that meet in jagged points from each side of the circle.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original circle.
Draw the ears. For each ear, extend two curved lines upward from the head, allowing the lines to meet in rounded points.
Erase the guide lines from the ears.
Outline the body by extending a series of curved lines diagonally from the head and chest. Allow the lines to meet in jagged points to form the detail of fur.
Outline the legs. From the triangular tuft of fur on the chest, extend two curved lines downward. From the shoulder, extend a series of curved lines, allowing a jagged fur detail to form at the top. At the base of the body, draw the rear leg in a sitting position by drawing an open circular figure. Add some jagged fur detail to the top of the open circle. Beneath it, extend a set of curved lines to form the rear foot.
Connect the leg lines by drawing toes on each foot. To draw the toes, use a series of connected, “U” shaped lines.
Add furry detail to your fox. Draw a curved line down the length of each ear, and add jagged fur detail at its base. Draw short, jagged lines through the chest, across the shoulder, and across the top of each foreleg.
Draw a series of short and long curved lines, meeting in points, across the bottom of the body. This begins to form the tail.
Use a series of curved lines to enclose the tail, beginning at the base of the back.
Using short, curved lines, draw a jagged zigzag pattern across the tip of the tail. Draw a curved triangle at the tip of each toe to form the claws. Shade the claws.
Draw a flattened circle on each side of the nose to form the eyes. Within each eye, draw a tiny circle within a large circle. Shade the area between the two circles. Draw a curved line above each eye to form eyebrows.
Color your fox. The familiar red fox is often red or orange with white or cream colored patches, but other species of fox come in many colors, including white, brown, black, and grey.
Watch 'How to Draw a Deer' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Deer
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small circle. This will form the deer’s head.
Below the circle, enclose an irregular shape with a flat bottom. Draw a curved line across the bottom. This shape will become the deer’s mouth.
Connect the mouth to the head using two curved lines.
From the back of the head and below the mouth, extend sets of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. These lines will form the deer’s furry neck.
Outline the deer’s body using long, curved lines. Allow the lines to meet in a down-turned point.
Draw the deer’s front leg using a series of curved lines. Notice how the curves of the joints form blunt points, and how the lines converge inward just above the foot. Don’t forget the shaggy detail of fur where the leg connects to the body.
Draw the rear leg using a series of curved lines, paying similar attention to detail around the joints and foot.
Draw the far front leg using a series of curved lines.
Draw the far rear leg using a series of curved lines.
Enclose the shape of the tail using a series of short, curved lines that meet in downward facing points. Then, draw short, curved lines running the length of the tail to add the detail of fur.
Using connected, short, curved lines, draw furry detail extending down the deer’s neck and across his belly. Use short, curved lines to add more fur detail to the shoulder.
Erase the guide line that crosses the legs and stomach.
To draw the ear, extend two long, curved lines diagonally from the head, allowing the lines to meet in a rounded point. Using a curved line, enclose an oval shape to add detail within the ear.
Repeat this process to form the second ear on the other side of the head.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original small circle.
Next, you will draw the antlers. Begin by extending a long, curved line upwards from the head. Extend a shorter line from the head, allowing it to diverge from the first. Draw a third line, beginning at the tip of the second line and extending nearly to the first line. From this point, draw another line parallel to the first, again allowing it to diverge. Repeat this process until you have completed the antler with multiple branches.
Repeat this process of drawing parallel lines that diverge and branch to form the deer’s other antler.
Draw a curved line across each foot to designate the hoof, and draw a short line upward from the bottom of the hoof to indicate the split. Draw numerous, oval shaped spots of different sizes on the deer’s body.
Draw two small ovals on the nose to indicate the nostrils. Draw two teardrop shapes to outline the eyes. Draw an oval within each eye, and a tiny circle within the oval. Shade between the circle and the oval.
Color the deer. Most deer are tan or brown with white markings.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Guinea Pig' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Guinea Pig
The Complete Guinea Pig Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to shape the guinea pig’s head.
2. Using a long, curved line, enclose a large, irregular form to one side of the head. Notice the two bulges on the bottom side of the shape that will become the legs.
3. Contour and extend the shape of the head. Within the circle, sketch a more detailed form. Then, use two overlapping curved lines to enclose the shape of the snout and mouth.
4. Erase the guide lines, leaving a globular outline.
5. Sketch in the guinea pig’s foreleg, erasing guide lines as necessary. Use two curved lines to indicate the shoulder and upper leg. Connect them using an overlapping series of “U” shaped lines. Finally, use three long, narrow “U” shaped lines to enclose the toes.
6. Draw the far foreleg extending from behind the neck. Use overlapping curved lines to craft the furry leg as before. Then, overlap several narrow “U” shaped lines to enclose the toes and foot.
7. Sketch the rear feet. For the near foot, outline the foot using two curved lines. Connect them using “U” shaped lines to form toes. For the far foot, enclose two or more toes, partially hidden by the body, using curved lines.
8. Detail the guinea pig’s face. Draw a circle within a circle to form the large, watery eye. Draw an oval and a tiny circle within the smaller circle, and shade around them to form the pupil. Use long, curved lines to enclose the ears. Draw a rounded shape on the snout to form the nose. Draw a small oval to indicate a shine, and shade the nose.
9. Add details of fur along the curves of the guinea pig’s body. Use series of short lines that connect in jagged points. Then, draw whiskers extending from the nose using long, curved lines.
10. Color your guinea pig. These small mammals come in a range of colors, including black, white, cream, grey, and brown. They may also display combinations of these colors, marked with spots, blotches, patches, and rosettes.
Learn to draw more fun pets and amazing wildlife using our selection of animal drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Kitten' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Kitten
The Complete Kitten Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the kitten’s head.
2. Next, use curved lines to enclose an irregular shape below the head. This will become the kitten’s body.
3. Extend a pair of curved lines from each side of the head. Use a series of short curved lines connected in jagged points to connect each pair of lines. This gives shape to the head and forms the kitten’s furry cheeks.
4. Enclose two large curved triangles on top of the kitten’s head. Then, enclose a smaller triangle inside each of the larger triangles. These form the kitten’s ears.
5. Erase the guide lines left by the original circle. Enclose the inner triangle of each ear using a series of short curved lines connected at jagged points.
6. Draw the kitten’s front legs and paws. Use pairs of curved lines to outline each leg. Then, enclose the foot using overlapping “U” shaped lines to form the toes.
7. Next, draw the kitten’s rear legs. Use long, curved lines to enclose the rounded shape of the leg. Then, use “U” shaped lines to form the toes, enclosing the foot. Notice the curved line indicating a crease across one of the feet. Then, draw the tail. Extend two long, curved lines from behind the rear leg. Indicate a differently colored tuft at the end, using a series of connected, short lines.
8. Erase any remaining guide lines from the kitten.
9. Use short, curved lines to detail the fur of the chest, belly, and legs. Then, detail the face. Draw rounded shapes with points on each side to form the eyes. Within each eye, draw three circles – one within the next. Draw a tiny circle beside the smallest circle and shade around it, forming the pupil. Use two curved lines to enclose a curved shape above each eye, forming the eyebrows. Enclose a rounded, upside down triangle to form the nose. Draw a “W” shaped line beneath it to indicate the mouth. On each side of the mouth, draw dots and long, curved lines to indicate the whiskers.
10. Color your kitten. Cats often come in solid colors, spots, or stripes. Their colors range from white to black, orange to grey.
Everybody wants to be a cat! Learn to draw a cat face, simple cat, cartoon cat, or Cheshire cat using our easy drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​​ ​Husky' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​​ ​Husky
The Complete Husky Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the husky’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​​​Draw an irregular bean shape beneath the head. This will form the husky’s body.
3. ​​​​​​​​​Connect the head and body using a series of short, curved, connected lines. The lines should meet in opposing points to resemble shaggy fur.
4. ​​​​​​​Begin to sketch the husky’s face. For each ear, extend two curved lines upward to meet above the head, enclosing curved triangle shapes. For the snout, begin with a large “C” shaped line crossing the side of the face. Then, draw a curved line upwards from the snout to meet the ear.
5.​​ ​​​​​Draw the front legs. For each leg, extend two curved lines downward. Notice how the curves of the line indicate the knees and ankles. Then, connect the lines, using small “U” shaped lines to represent the toes.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Draw the back legs. For each leg, extend a set of curved lines downward from the body. Notice that on the near leg, the lines have extreme curves near the top to indicate the shape of the thigh and ankle. Connect the leg lines at the bottom using a series of short, “U” shaped curved lines to represent the toes.
7. ​Erase the guide lines from the head, body, and legs, leaving a clean outline of your husky.
8.​​​ ​​​Add detail to the husky. Draw a curved triangle within the bounds of the near ear. Distinguish the husky’s lighter face and underbelly from its darker back using a series of connected, curved lines. The lines should meet in jagged points to indicate fur. Notice the way the line dips into the nose and onto the shoulder. Then, draw the tail. Use a series of curved and overlapping lines to sketch the curly tail.
9.​​ ​Add detail to the husky’s face. Draw an oval within an oval to form each eye. Then, draw a small circle inside the inner oval, and shade between the shapes. Draw a curved line above each eye to indicate the eyebrows. For the nose, sketch a rounded, upside down triangle. Use curved lines to sketch the mouth.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​​Color your husky. Huskies are often grey and white, but they also come in shades of brown and black.
Would you like to draw more of man’s best friend? Sharpen your skills with our list of the 50 best dog drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​​ Koala' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​​ Koala
The Complete Koala Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a set of parallel curved lines. This will form the tree branch that the koala is clinging to.
2. ​​​​​​​​Draw a circle, allowing it to overlap the side of the tree branch. This will form the koala’s head.
3. ​​​​​​​​Detail the outline of the head. Sketch furry, jagged lines. Near the top of the head, the lines should pass inside the circle. Near the bottom, they should be located outside the circle, indicating chubby cheeks.
4. ​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the head.
5.​​ ​​​​Using a curved line, draw the koala’s arm. Extend the line from the bottom of the head, across the tree, and double it back upon itself.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​Beneath the arm, begin to draw the leg using a “C” shaped line. Beneath this, use another curved line to form the foot. Draw a long, curved line from the foot to the head, enclosing the animal’s body.
7. ​​​​​​​​​Erase any remaining guide lines.
8.​​​ ​​Draw the koala’s large, furry ears. Enclose a rounded shape by drawing a “C” shaped line on each side of the head. Enclose another circular shape around the first. Allow the lines to overlap a bit, giving the impression of fur.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​Detail the koala’s face. Draw a large, egg shaped oval to form the nose. On each side of the nose, draw a small circle to form the eyes. In each eye, draw a tiny circle within a circle. Shade between the two circles, indicating the pupil. Use a wide “U” shaped line to form the smiling mouth, and use a short curved line to indicate the chin. Draw a thick curved line above each eye to indicate eyebrows.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​Color your koala. This animal is generally grey in color.
Give your koala a home using our handy forest drawing guide.
Watch 'How to Draw a Lion' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Lion
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small circle.
Extend a slightly curved, rectangular shape from the circle.
Use a series of curved lines to outline the detail of the lion’s snout, nose, and mouth within the rectangle.
Erase the guide lines formed by the rectangle.
Draw two small, curved lines within the circle to form the ear. Each of the lines will form a nearly enclosed, irregular shape.
Draw a series of curved lines below the ear, meeting in jagged points. This will begin to form the lion’s mane. Beneath the jagged mane, draw a curving, loosely “S” shaped line.
Draw the mane extending above the ear using curved lines of various lengths that connect in jagged points.
Enclose the shape of the mane by extending a series of curved lines from the top portion of the mane to the bottom portion. Allow the lines to overlap and meet in jagged points.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original circle.
Draw a circle overlapping the mane. Draw a second circle to the right of the first circle.
Connect the top of the circles using a single curved line. Connect the bottom of the circles using a series of curved lines that meet in jagged points.
Erase the guide lines formed by the circles.
Draw a curved line extending from below the mane. Parallel to this line, draw a series of curved lines that meet in jagged points. Draw a third, similar line behind the second.
To draw the back legs, begin by extending an “S” shaped line from the stomach area. From the right of the figure, extend a series of curved lines in an “S” shape, and allow the lines to overlap and meet in jagged points. Extend two more roughly parallel, loosely “S” shaped lines diagonally from the rear of the figure.
Draw a foot at the end of each set of leg lines. To enclose the foot, draw one or two curved lines at the end of each set of lines. For the near feet, allow the curved lines to meet in two “U” shapes, forming toes.
Draw the tail using two long, “U” shaped curved lines.
Erase the guide lines from the legs.
Add detail to the face. Draw a “U” shaped line to form the eye, and shade the pupil. Draw a curved line above the eye and use another for the nose. Draw several dots above the mouth and extend nearly straight lines to form whiskers.
Use a series of curved lines, meeting in a sharp point, to draw the tuft of fur at the tip of the tail. Draw curved lines meeting in jagged points to add detail to the mane and shoulder.
Color your lion. Most lions are sandy or tan in color, but some are white or cream. Mane colors range from brown to blonde to red.
Watch 'How to Draw a Monkey' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Monkey
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw the head as a circle.
Next, face is made of two circles for upper face and one oval for muzzle.
You can remove the overlapping lines from the previous step. The face is starting to take shape.
Draw two circles for eyes and a smaller oval for the nose.
Add the final facial features; the cartoony pac man pupils and mouth.
Outline the round ear-shapes on top of the head.
Draw the inside ears and a larger circle that will be the body of the monkey.
Add upper and lower limbs. Maintain proportions; arms and legs should have similar lengths and thicknesses.
Draw the hands. This may be the most difficult part of drawing a monkey. First, draw the thumb so it points a little to the side, then draw the fingers starting from the opposite side of the thumb, and, finally, connect the fingers to the thumb.
In the last step, we draw the feet and tail. First, sketch the heel, then continue with the sides of a foot, and draw the toes last. When sketching the tail, make a single curvy line first and then draw a parallel line next to it and connect the lines at the tip of the tail.
Color your monkey drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw a Moose' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Moose
The Complete Moose Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide











Watch 'How to Draw a Mouse Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Mouse
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle.
To the left of the circle, draw a curved line, sloping downward.
Draw a similar line on the right side.
Erase the guidelines formed by the original circle, leaving open spots on the top and bottom.
Draw the ears using two curved lines. To create depth, one ear will be much larger and more rounded than the other.
Detail the inside of the ears using four curved lines – one on the far ear and three on the near ear.
Give your mouse some hair. Use four lines to draw two curved triangles between the ears.
Erase the guidelines from within the hair.
Use a long, curved line to form the mouse’s neck and body.
Begin to shape the mouse’s upper leg using two curved lines within the body shape, bringing these to a point at the bottom.
Draw the feet. Use one curved line to form each foot. The feet will be shaped like half ovals.
Draw the arms using two curved lines. The arms hang downwards from the middle of the body.
Erase the guideline from within the left arm.
Add detail to your mouse’s toes. On each hand and foot, use two short, curved lines to separate the hand into three fingers and the foot into three toes.
Draw the tail using two long, curving lines. Each line will be shaped like a loose letter “S,” and the lines will meet in a point behind the mouse’s head.
Draw the nose at the tip of the snout. The nose should be an irregular circular, slightly pointed on the right and bottom.
Draw the eye by placing a large circle in the middle of the head.
Give your mouse whiskers. First, draw three dots below the nose. Then, use two long curving lines to extend whiskers from the face, near the dots. Use two shorter curved lines to place whiskers on the far side of the face.
Draw the pupil of the eye. Begin with a slightly smaller circle within the large eye circle. Draw two small ovals on opposite sides of the pupil, one larger than the other. Shade the pupil.
Complete your mouse with color. A suggested color scheme involves shading the mouse in brown or gray, and coloring the inside of the ears pink.
Watch 'How to Draw a Polar Bear Cub' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Polar Bear Cub
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval. This shape will outline the bear’s head.
Draw another, larger oval intersecting the first. This shape continues the outline of the head.
Erase the guide lines from within the shape.
Draw a tuft of fur on top of the head using short, curved lines that meet in points. Enclose the ears, similarly using short, connected curved lines, forming a rounded shape.
Draw a curved line within each ear, adding detail. Draw two ovals in the middle of the face, outlining the eyes.
Erase the guide lines from the ears and tuft.
Draw a curved line above each eye, indicating eyebrows. Draw another oval in the middle of the face to form the nose. Enclose an oval shape around the nose using two curved lines. Draw a curved line to form the mouth, and connect it to the nose using a short line.
Extend a series of curved lines from the head, doubling back to outline the arm. Allow the lines to meet in jagged points, forming a bit of fur. Draw several curved lines at the tip of the arm to differentiate the fingers.
Repeat this process on the opposite side, forming a mirror image.
Within the eye, draw an oval. Draw a curved line across the oval to outline the pupil. Within the pupil, detail the eye with a small oval and even smaller circle. Shade the pupil. Connect the paws using a curved line.
Repeat the process to detail the eye on the opposite side.
Draw short lines that meet in jagged lines along the sides of the face, affording the detail of fur. Erase guide lines as necessary. Draw a series of connected, curved lines along each arm to indicate the presence of fur.
Draw an oval alongside one arm, forming the foot. Connect the foot to the body using a short, curved line. Detail the curve of the ankle using another curved line.
Enclose an oval shape on the opposite side, forming the other foot.
Draw a curved line across the top of each foot.
Draw short, curved lines between the upper lines of the foot, indicating the division of the toes. Draw three small circles within the oval of the foot, and a larger, irregular shape beneath. These shapes form the paw print.
Repeat this process on the opposite foot.
Polar bears live in the Arctic, so give yours an ice flow to sit upon. Enclose an irregular circular shape around the bear’s feet using a long, wavy line. Enclose an irregular rectangular shape beneath this using a second wavy line.
Detail the ice using thick, wavy lines of various lengths. Draw curved lines in a circular shape around the ice flow, indicating the presence of water. Draw a wavy line along the horizon.
Color your cute polar bear cub.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​ Pug' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​​ Pug
The Complete Pug Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a round shape, circular, but wider at the base than the top. This will form the dog’s head.
2. ​Extend a long, curved line from the side of the head. Curve the line back upon itself, connecting to the bottom of the head and enclosing a peanut-like shape. This forms the dog’s body. Notice the small overlap on the chest, giving the appearance of fur.
3. ​​​​​​​​Extend two sets of curved lines downward from the chest and belly. These are the dog’s front legs. Notice the curvature of the legs and the overlapping lines, indicating fur. Connect the lines on the ends using short, curved lines, forming the feet. Draw a curved line across each foot, and use short, curved lines to distinguish the toes.
4. ​​​​​​Extend two pairs of curved lines downward from back of the body, forming the rear legs. Enclose each foot using a curved line. Band each foot with a curved line, and use short curved lines to indicate the toes.
5.​​ ​​​​Erase the guide lines from the legs and body.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​Draw two large, irregular ovals in the middle of the face. These will form the eyes. Draw a curved line above each eye and a rounded “V” shaped line between them, indicating the wrinkled brow.
7. ​Draw an upside down, rounded triangle to form the nose. Connect it to the bottom of the face using curved lines. Draw short, curved lines to indicate fur on the chest and leg.
8.​​​ ​Extend a curved line from each side of the head, and enclose an irregular shape. These are the dog’s ears.
9.​​ ​To draw the tail, first draw a long, curved line upward from the back of the body. From there, draw a series of short, curved lines to indicate fur. Let the curled tail end in a point, and then reconnect to the body. Detail the face. In each eye, draw a small circle within a circle, and shade between the two. Draw a curved “W” shaped line below the nose, forming the mouth. Draw dots above it.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​Color your pug. These dogs may be combinations of tan, brown, and black, or they may be solid black.
Draw more of man’s best friend with our collection of dog drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Raccoon' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a Raccoon
The Complete Raccoon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the basis for the raccoon’s head.
2. ​Next, outline the shape of the raccoon’s cheek. Begin drawing a curved line just inside the top of the oval. Bring it outside the oval, and extend it past the oval’s side. Then, double it back in a gentle point to meet the bottom of the oval.
3. ​​​​​​Outline the raccoon’s other cheek. Begin your curved line at the top of the oval. Bring the line upwards, then down and through the side of the oval. Extend it past the side of the oval before bending it back to meet the bottom of the oval.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guidelines of the original oval from the figure.
5.​ ​​Draw the raccoon’s nose. Begin by placing a vertical curved line in the middle of the oval. At the bottom of this line, outline the snout. Use a curved line that extends beyond the face and then connects with the bottom of it, forming an incomplete oval. Use two curved lines to form a rounded triangle at the tip of the nose, and shade within it.
6.​ ​​​​Erase the guide lines from the snout. Also erase a portion of the outline between the snout and the face.
7. ​​​Outline the raccoon’s body. Extend two broadly spaced curved lines downwards from the head. At the bottom, allow one to curve under until it almost meets the other. Then, outline the legs and feet. Draw a curved line to indicate each leg, and enclose an irregular shape to form each foot.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​​​Draw the arms using a pair of curved lines. Complete the hands using “U” shaped lines to form the fingers. Indicate toes on the feet using short, curved lines. Finally, draw the tail using a pair of long, curved lines that meet in a point. Notice how the lines curve outward to give the tail a fluffy appearance. Then, band the tail with pairs of parallel curved lines.
9.​​ ​Draw the raccoon’s face. For each ear, enclose a curved triangle within a larger curved triangle. Draw curved lines across the face to form the raccoon’s mask. For each eye, draw three successively smaller ovals. Finally, use a curved line to form the raccoon’s smile.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your raccoon.
Are you wild about forest animals? Use our drawing guides to draw a forest and all its woodland creatures.
Watch 'How to Draw a Rat' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Rat
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle on the middle right of your paper.
Next, draw a rounded triangle protruding from the right side of the circle. The triangle and circle will overlap.
Connect the triangle and circle with short, straight, lines.
Erase the overlapping areas of the circle and triangle.
Draw another, slightly larger circle to the left of the first circle. The two circles should overlap.
Draw another, larger circle to the left of the second circle. These circles do not touch.
Connect the circles on top and bottom using curved lines.
Erase the overlapping lines, allowing a small portion of the top of each circle to remain within your new shape.
Next, use curving lines to form the closest front leg. Begin in the middle of the shape, slightly to the right of center. The lines will curve toward each other before coming to a point at the foot. A small line within this shape designates the toes. For the far leg, draw a triangle that does not meet at the tip. Using five curved lines, form three toes that extend to the right and end in a point.
Erase the line crossing the nearer leg.
Add fur detail using short curved lines that come together in jagged points.
Erase guidelines from the near leg and the large circle of the back.
To draw the rear leg, begin with two curved lines. One will extend from the middle left of what was the large circle. The other will extend from the center of what was the large circle, to its bottom. Connect the two curved lines with short lines forming a jagged fur detail. To form the foot, extend a loose s-curve from the jagged line to the right. To form toes, use four curved lines in an “M” shape. Use another curved line to connect the remaining line to the rat’s stomach.
Erase the curved guide line from the rear leg.
To draw the base of the tail, begin by drawing a curved line from the middle left of the drawing, downwards. Use several short strokes to form a jagged fur detail. Connect this to the rear leg using a curved line.
Draw the tail using two long, curved lines. These will begin on each side of the base of the tail and curve to the right, ending below the front feet. The curved lines should meet in a blunt point. Then, use seven short, curved lines to add texture to the tail. These lines should run from the left tail line to the right, ending just before meeting the right tail line.
Each ear consists of two curved lines. For the nearer ear, overlap an irregular, partial circle with the top of the second circle you drew. The circle should be open to the bottom right. Draw a similar, smaller circle within it. For the far ear, draw a short, upside down hook, open to the right side and extending from the top right of the second original circle. Draw another hook facing the left, connecting the top of the first hook to the rat’s head.
Draw the eye just below and to the right of the far ear. Draw a nose at the tip of the snout – it should resemble a rounded, upside down triangle.
Draw another circle within the eye circle. Use six nearly straight lines to draw whiskers, extending downwards from the nose.
Erase the guide lines within the near ear. Shade the area between the eye circles.
Color your rat.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sheep' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sheep
The Complete Sheep Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin the sheep’s face by drawing a curved line. From the first, extend a second curved line, and draw a very short curved line at its opposite end.
2. Enclose the sheep’s open mouth using a short curved line. Then, outline the jaw using a series of curved lines of various lengths.
3. Draw each ear using two curved lines, meeting in a point at the end.
4. Outline the sheep’s woolly back. Do so by connecting a series of very short, curved lines.
5. Finish enclosing the shape of the sheep’s body using short, curved lines. Notice the slightly longer lines, turned outward at a different angle, that indicate the sheep’s tail.
6. Using short, curved lines, draw a tuft of wool from which to extend the front leg. Use two curved lines to draw the leg, noting the outward protrusions at the knee and ankle. Repeat to form all four legs.
7. Draw a hoof to complete each foot, using a triangle with one curved side.
8. Draw the sheep’s horns. Enclose a circular shape around the sheep’s ear. Draw another, smaller half circle within it, denoting the curling shape of the horn. Add texture by banding it with short, curved lines. For the far horn, simply enclose a shape with a short, curved line and band it with straight lines.
9. Draw a circle to denote the eye; shade the circle, leaving an irregular shape unshaded. Draw a short, curved line extending from the top of the eye. Enclose the eyebrow using two short, curved lines. Finally, texture the sheep’s wool using several series of connected and individual short, curved lines.
10. Color your sheep. Why not give him some barnyard friends? Check out our fun drawing tutorials for horses, goats, cows, and pigs.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Red Panda' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​Red Panda
The Complete Red Panda Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle or an oval. This forms the panda’s head.
2. ​​​​​​Next, extend a curved line beneath the head. Double the line back upon itself, enclosing a rounded shape, outlining the body.
3. ​​​​​​On one side of the head, extend a short, curved line. Then, draw several curved lines, meeting in points, forming a zigzag pattern. Then, use a longer curved line to connect the zigzag to the chin. Repeat this process on the other side to form a mirror image.
4. ​​​​From the middle of the body, extend a curved line. Allow the line to cross outside the body, then double back upon itself. This forms one of the panda’s front legs. Enclose another, similar shape using a curved line to form the other leg.
5.​​ ​​Erase guide lines from the face and leg.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​Draw a curved line across the body, nearly enclosing a circle. Then, connect the open edge of the circle to the front of the body using a short, curved line. This forms the panda’s back leg. From the hip, extend a long, curved line that wraps around to the front of the body. Double the line back upon itself, crossing over two of the feet. This forms the long, thick tail.
7. ​​​​​​​Enclose small oval shapes at the tip of each paw, indicating claws. Band the tail with sets of parallel curved lines, indicating stripes.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​For each ear, enclose a triangle, and a smaller triangle within it. Draw two circles in the middle of the face to form the large eyes. Draw a tiny circle within each eye, and shade around it. Above each eye, draw a sideways “U” shape. Then, enclose the end of each “U” using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. These form the panda’s eyebrows.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​Add the final details to your red panda. Draw an upside down, rounded triangle shape to form the nose. Place a small oval within it, and shade around it. Beneath the nose, sketch two curved lines like a rounded “W” to form the mouth. Enclose the mouth and the area between the eyes using short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. Use similar lines to enclose a curved shape on each cheek. Finally, add the texture of fur to the top of the head, chest, and foreleg using short lines.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​Color your red panda. In the wild, red pandas have reddish brown fur, black chests and paws, white ears and face patches, and darker brown rings around the tail.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sloth' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sloth
The Complete Sloth Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide











Watch 'How to Draw a Unicorn' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Unicorn
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small circle. This will form the unicorn’s head.
Next, draw a curved line passing through the circle. Draw a short, curved line at its tip. This forms the unicorn’s snout.
Draw another curved line passing through the circle, meeting the line from the previous step. This outlines the unicorn’s lower jaw.
Below the head, draw a large oval. This will become the unicorn’s body.
Connect the head to the body by drawing a curved line. Extend a short, curved line from the other end of the body.
Draw the ear by extending three curved lines upward from the head, allowing them to meet in a rounded point. Within the ear, draw a zigzag line to indicate fur.
Erase the guide lines left by the circle and the oval.
Next, draw the legs. Each leg will consist of two long, curved lines, joined at the end by a shorter curved line. Notice how the curve of the lines outlines the shape of the hoof, curving slightly inwards above the base of the leg.
Erase the guide lines from the legs.
Draw a curved line across the bottom of each leg to indicate the hoof. Draw a small triangle within each hoof to indicate the split in the hoof.
Draw the mane using several long, curved lines, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points.
To draw the horn, begin by extending a straight line from the head. Then, use a series of connected, curved lines to form the horn’s spiral pattern.
Draw long, curved lines down the length of the mane.
To form the wings, extend two long, curved lines from the back of the neck.
Use a series of connected, “U” shaped lines to form the feather pattern on the bottom side of the wings.
Draw more connected, “U” shaped lines to add feathery detail to the wing.
Draw the tail using two long, curved lines that meet in a point.
Draw several curved lines within the tail to give the detail of hair.
Draw a small oval on the snout to form the nostril, and a larger circle for the eye. Within the eye, draw a circle inside a circle and shade between them. Draw several short, curved lines above the eye to indicate eyelashes.
Color the unicorn however you like. Since unicorns are imaginary animals, they can be any color of the rainbow.
Watch 'How to Draw a Whale' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Whale
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a large oval. This will outline the whale’s head.
Beneath the oval, draw a long, curved line to form the whale’s stomach.
Draw another curved line from the top of the oval, to outline the top of the whale’s head and back.
Draw a curved line to form the mouth. Detail the corner of the mouth using a short, curved line.
Draw a curved line from the mouth to the line of the stomach.
Extend the back using a curved line.
Draw a curved line extending from the stomach. Note how this line nears the line of the back, narrowing the figure to accommodate the tail.
Draw a curved line extending from the middle of the whale. This will form the pectoral fin.
Draw another curved line to form the bottom side of the pectoral fin.
Erase the guide lines from the whale’s body and face.
Draw curved lines from the mouth to the belly. This indicates the ribbed texture of the stomach of humpback whales and some other varieties.
Draw two curved lines at the tip of the mouth to form lips.
Draw two curved lines extending from one side of the tail, allowing the lines to meet at a sharp point. This forms one half of the tail fin.
Repeat this process to draw a mirror image on the opposite side, completing the tail fin.
Draw a curved triangle extending from the whale’s belly to indicate the pectoral fin on the opposite side. Draw a curved line down the length of the fin.
Draw water spurting from the whale’s head. Begin by drawing long, vertical, parallel lines. At the top of the lines, enclose a number of rounded shapes to resemble splashing water.
Indicate the blowhole by drawing a curved line at the bottom of the column of water. Draw teardrop shapes around the water to indicate splashing droplets.
Draw a circle to form the eye. Make the eye sparkle by drawing a small circle within it, and shade the eye. Draw a curved line above the eye to form an eyebrow.
Add depth to the drawing by adding curved lines to the pectoral fin and tail fins.
Color your whale. In nature, whales often appear gray or blue in color.
Watch 'How to Draw a Wolf' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Wolf
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the wolf’s head.
From each side of the circle, draw a curved line extending downward.
Draw ears on top of the head. For each ear, draw three curved lines that converge in a point.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original circle.
Draw the fur of the neck extending downward from the head. This fur consists of a series of alternating long and short curved lines. The lines meet sharply to form jagged points.
Draw a half circle encompassing the fur lines just drawn.
Draw another, irregular half circle extending to the left from the first.
Draw a rear leg extending downward from the irregular half circle. The leg consists of two curved lines that get nearer to one another towards the bottom. Draw two curved lines to form the front leg, beginning from the middle and side of the first half circle.
Draw the right front leg consisting of three curved lines. Begin the rear right leg by drawing one curved line.
Erase the guide lines formed by the half circles from the body. The form of your wolf now becomes clear.
Add detail to the fur. Using short, curved lines that join in jagged points, draw tufts of fur at the base of each ear. Add similar details to the chest, shoulders, rump, and legs. Use a curved line to extend the line of the stomach across the rear leg.
Draw the tail. Begin with a long, curved line extending from the rump. Then, use a series of about seven shorter curved lines of varying lengths to add jagged details of fur and complete the tail.
Draw each of the four feet. For each foot, connect a roughly “U” shaped curved line to the end of each set of leg lines.
Draw toes within the feet. Do this by placing two curved lines at the end of each foot.
Draw each eye using two short, curved lines.
To form the snout, draw a wide “U” shaped line in the middle of the face.
Draw a short, curved line at the tip of the snout, and extend a short line upwards from the curve. Atop this line, draw the nose, a round shape slightly pointed at the bottom.
Detail the eyes. For each eye, draw a circle within a circle. Shade the inner circle.
Using short, curved lines, add detail to the face – between the eyes, beneath the eyes, and on either side of the snout.
Color your wolf. Gray wolves are often depicted as being varying shades of gray in color, but they can also be brown, black, reddish, or even white.
Watch 'How to Draw a Zebra' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Zebra
The Complete Zebra Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the zebra’s head.
2. Draw a smaller circle near the first. This will form the zebra’s snout.
3. Draw a large, rounded rectangular shape to form the zebra’s body. Begin by drawing two straight, horizontal lines, parallel to one another. Then, connect the lines using two curved lines.
4. Connect the snout to the head, and the head to the body, using two pairs of straight lines.
5. Erase the guide lines from the head, neck, and body.
6. Draw the legs. For each leg, draw a set of long, straight, parallel lines descending from the body. Connect the lines at the bottom using a short, straight line, thus enclosing long, narrow rectangles. Indicate the hooves by drawing a short, straight line across the bottom of each leg. For the near legs, draw a set of curved lines at the top of each, indicating the shoulder and hip.
7. Add detail to your zebra. Draw two curved triangles extending from the head, forming the ears. Draw a long, curved line from the top of the head to the back to form the mane. Finally, extend two curved, parallel lines from the hip to form the tail. Allow the lines to diverge at the end, and connect them using a short, curved line. This indicates the tuft of fur at the tip of the tail.
8. Erase the guide lines from the legs, ears, and tail.
9. Every zebra has to have stripes. Draw thick, curved lines along the mane, legs, and tail. Shade the tip of the tail. Across the neck and back, draw narrow, curved triangles, and shade within the shapes. Finally, give your zebra a smile. Draw a curved line across the end of the snout, and another curve to indicate the mouth.
10. Color your zebra. Zebras are white with black or brown stripes.
Watch 'How to Draw an Arctic Fox' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Arctic Fox
The Complete Arctic Fox Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline the fox’s head.
2. Draw a wide “U” shaped line overlapping the top of the head. Then, draw curved lines from the ends of the “U” to the circle, enclosing rounded triangles. These will form the fox’s ears. Draw a wide “U” shaped line beneath the circle, and connect it to the circle using short curved lines connected in jagged points. This forms the fox’s muzzle and jaw.
3. Enclose a rounded shape beneath the head using a series of short curved lines connected in jagged points. The lines should connect at the bottom in the downward facing point. This forms the fox’s furry chest, sometimes called a ruff.
4. Using a long curved line, enclose a rounded shape below and to one side of the ruff. This indicates the fox’s body.
5. Extend two sets of parallel lines downward from the body, forming the legs. Enclose a foot at the bottom of each leg, using multiple curved lines to indicate the toes.
6. Draw two curved lines within the body, forming an incomplete circle. This is the fox’s hip or haunches. Connect the lines by drawing the fox’s foot, using several short curved lines to indicate the toes.
7. Erase guide lines from the fox’s face and body.
8. Extend two long curved lines upward from the back of the fox’s body. Allow the lines to meet at a gentle point, forming the bushy tail. Use short curved lines connected in jagged points to enclose a rounded diamond shape at the tip of the tail.
9. Detail the fox’s face and body. Enclose triangles within each ear to form the inner ear. Use short lines to add the texture of fur to the ears, face, chest, and tail. Draw a rounded shape to form the eyes, and shade darkened points on each side. Use a curved line across each eye to form the eyelid, and a shaded circle within a circle to indicate the pupils. Enclose curved shapes for the eyebrows and a rounded shape for the nose. Use a curved “W” shaped line to indicate the mouth.
Color your Arctic fox. In winter, Arctic foxes are a snowy white, but their summer coats are grey. The foxes may appear spotted when shedding one coat for another.
You’ll find many more Arctic animals, such as whales and polar bears, and the fox’s cousins, such as coyotes and wolves, in our selection of animal drawing guides.
​Watch 'How to Draw an Elephant' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Elephant
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start by drawing a circle on the left side of the paper.
Next, draw a bigger circle on the right side. These two circles are the head and bum of the elephant.
Draw the back with an arc connecting the circles.
Draw two parallel C-shapes for the trunk.
Outline the legs with four lines. Try to sketch the legs as shown above.
Complete the outline of the legs with two more lines. Connect the lines with short lines underfoot.
Draw the ear with three curving lines behind the head.
Draw an arc behind the elephant and connect it with a short line to the ear facing us. This is all we can see of the other ear.
Draw two parallel S-curves that connect in the end for the tail.
Add a leaf shape at the bottom of the tail.
Now, we will draw the side of the mouth where the tusk grows. Also, add a small U-shape at the end of the trunk.
Draw two parallel curves that connect at the end for the tusk. Similarly, draw the tip of the tusk on the far side.
Outline the eye with a half circle. Draw a large, round pupil inside but leave a small uncolored dot in it. Draw a short curving line above the eye for the eye brow.
Draw two curving lines to outline the belly.
Erase the extra lines. Your elephant drawing is almost done. Only some details need to be added.
Draw the toes as inverted U-shapes.
Add a few lines inside the ear.
Make the eye brow thicker, add a line for the eye lid, and another line at the mouth to make your elephant smile.
Finally, add some short curvy lines underneath the trunk.
Clean up any stray lines and use a softer pencil to outline your complete elephant drawing. You can also color it.
Watch 'How to Draw an ​Easter ​Bunny' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​an Easter ​Bunny
The Complete Easter Bunny Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to outline the bunny’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​Use a long, curved line to enclose an irregular shape beneath the circle. This forms the bunny’s cheeks and chin.
3. ​​​​​​​​Draw the ears. For each ear, use a long, curved line to enclose a narrow shape.
4. Draw the bunny’s arms. For each arm, draw a long curved line that doubles back upon itself. The line should be connected to the face on its outer edge, but open towards the inside. Then, draw short, curved lines at the tip of each paw to distinguish the fingers.
5. Draw an oval between the paws. Notice how the paws overlap the shape. This will become the egg.
6. ​​Draw the bunny’s legs. Extend a long, curved line from behind the egg, noting how it outlines the curvature of the knee and foot before connecting again with the egg. Then, draw a short curved line extending from the egg toward each knee. Draw curved lines at the end of the foot to indicate toes.
7. Erase guide lines from the head.
8. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Add detail to the face. Enclose a smaller elongated shape within each ear. Begin the eyes by drawing two curved lines, then draw a pair of ovals about each. Draw two smaller circles within the inner oval to add detail. Draw a curved shape above each to form the eyebrows. Draw a bulging, upside down, rounded triangle to form the nose. Draw dots on each side of it, and extend curved lines to indicate whiskers. Use a series of curved lines to form the mouth, tongue, and teeth. Finally, add the detail of fur to the cheeks, erasing as necessary.
9. Use curved lines to draw grass behind the bunny. Draw lines, circles, zigzags, and other shapes across the egg to decorate it.
10. Color the Easter bunny.
​Just like magic, we’ve pulled more rabbits out of our hat. Check out our additional bunny drawing tutorial
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​n Otter' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​n Otter
The Complete Otter Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the otter’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​Extend a long, curved line from the head. Double the line back upon itself, toward the head. Join the line to the head, enclosing an irregular peanut shape.
3. ​​​​​​​Draw the otter’s ears. Use a small “C” shaped line for each ear.
4. ​​​​​Draw the legs and feet. For the front leg, extend two curved lines from the interior of the peanut shape, below the head. Connect the lines at the end, using small “U” shaped lines to from toes. For the back leg, begin with a sideways “U” shaped line. Then, extend a curved line from beneath the body. Connect the lines using small “U” shaped lines, outlining the toes in the process.
5.​​ ​​​Erase the guide lines from the head and legs.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​Draw the otter’s tail. Extend two long, curved lines from the back of the body. Allow them to meet in a gentle point, enclosing a curved triangle shape.
7. ​​​​​​​​Draw the feet on the far side of the animal. For each foot, use a curved line and several “U” shaped lines.
8.​​​ ​Detail the otter’s face. Draw a circular shape within the ear. For the eyes, draw two small circles. Within each eye, draw two successively smaller circles. Shade between the two smallest, indicating the pupil. For the nose, sketch an upside down, rounded triangular shape. Beneath it, extend two curved lines like a “W” to form the mouth.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Draw whiskers – long, curved lines – extending outwards from each side of the mouth. Add the detail of fur along the body, the legs, the neck, and the top and bottom of the head. Erase guide lines as necessary.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​Color your otter. Otters are generally brown in color.
Next, give your otter an aquatic home with the help of our waterfall drawing guide. Then, choose from our selection of animal drawing guides to give him some furry friends
Watch 'How to Draw an Orca' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Killer Whale
The Complete Orca Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line. Note that one side of the line dips down farther than the other. This outlines the shape of the orca’s back, tail, and head.
2. Next, draw another long, curved line continuing from the end of the first. Loop the line around, following the basic outline of the first line. Narrow the space between the two lines, but do not connect them. This outlines the whale’s face, belly, and tail. Then, draw a shorter line near the tip of the whale’s head, forming the mouth.
3. Use a series of curved lines to sketch the tail fin. Enclose the bottom of the fin using a curved line like the punctuation mark braces or curly brackets – {. Use a narrow “U” shaped line and a few small lines to detail the underside of the tail.
4. Draw a long, curved line from the base of the tail to the tip of the mouth.
5. Sketch the shape of the pectoral, or side, fin using a long curved line. Notice how the fin is shaped like an irregular triangle with rounded corners.
6. Erase guide lines from the fin.
7. Use a long curved line to enclose the dorsal, or back, fin. Notice how this fin, too, is roughly shaped like an irregular triangle.
8. Draw the pectoral fin on the orca’s far side. Use two curved lines that meet at a point, enclosing an irregular triangle shape.
9. Detail the snout with a curved line. Draw a small dot to indicate the eye. Sketch in the eyespot – a false eye – using two curved lines to enclose a double teardrop shape.
10. Color your orca. Killer whales are black and white in color. The upper portions are dark, providing camouflage from above, while the underbelly is white, blending in with sunlight when viewed from below. The white eyespot tricks both predators and prey, protecting the actual eye from attack and giving the whale an intimidating appearance.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Lion Head' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a ​Lion Head
The Complete Lion Head Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the basis of the head.
2. ​​Use a series of curved lines to give shape to the face. On each side of the circle, lines should begin beneath the shape, passing in then out again. The line should then extend to the side and double back in a gentle point, forming the cheek. It should pass back through the circle, meeting the other line in a downward facing point in the middle of the face.
3. ​​​​​​​Enclose a rounded shape beneath the head using a long, curved line. This will form the lion’s muzzle, or snout. Draw an upside down “V” within this shape, and connect it to the circle using a short line. This forms the mouth.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Using three lines, draw a curved rectangle with no top in the middle of the face. Beneath it, enclose a small triangle, forming the nose. Enclose an irregular shape for each eye, noting the pointed edge nearest the nose.
5.​ ​​​Draw the mane using a series of short, curved lines connected in jagged points.
6.​ ​​​​​Continue drawing the mane using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
7. ​​​​Erase the guide lines left by the original circle from the face.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​​​​Finish enclosing the mane, using curved lines that meet in jagged points to resemble the bushy fur. To draw the ears, first make a jagged, furry line – using several smaller lines – within the mane. Then, allow this to form the bottom of a triangle, along with two curved lines. Draw a short line in the center of the triangle to add depth to the ear.
9.​​ ​​Detail your lion’s face. Draw curved lines to add texture to the mane. Enclose a curved shape above each eye to form eyebrows. Within each eye, draw three successively smaller circles. Shade between the two smallest, forming the pupil.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your lion. Lions are generally brown or sandy in color. Their manes may be brown, orange, red, or even black. Some lions are even completely white!
​Lions, and tigers, and bears, oh my! Check out all of our wild mammal drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Banana' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Banana
The Complete Banana Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. This outlines the top of the banana.
2. Draw another curved line, slightly longer than and below the first. This outlines the bottom of the banana. The lines do not connect, but they form a shape like a crescent moon.
3. Draw a small circle connecting the lines on one end. This forms the dark “belly button” of the fruit. This dark spot is the remains of specific parts of the flower – the perianth, stigma, and style – from which the banana grew.
4. On the opposite end of the banana, draw a curved line extending from the bottom line. This begins to outline the banana’s cut stem.
5. Draw a shorter curved line extending from the top of the banana.
6. Connect the lines of the stem using an irregular rounded rectangle or oval shape. This forms the flat surface where the stem was cut.
7. Detail the stem. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the stem to separate it from the rest of the banana. Then, draw lines down the length of the stem.
8. Draw a long, curved line from the stem to the end of the banana, following the curvature of the fruit. This indicates the split in the banana’s peel.
9. Draw a second long, curved line down the length of the banana, indicating another division of the peel.
10. Color your banana. Most bananas are green or yellow, depending on the variety and level of ripeness but some bananas turn pink when ripe!
Would you like to draw more tropical fruits? Check out our coconut palm, pineapple, and apple drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Bush' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a Bush
The Complete Bush Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing a series of short, “U” shaped lines. The lines should be connected to one another, forming a longer, squiggly line. This is the bottom of the bush.
2. ​​Next, continue to draw small “U” shaped lines, some larger than others. This section of the bush should outline two “lumps,” two differently shaped sections of the plant.
3. ​​​​Continue to draw connected, “U” shaped line, again forming two to three “lumps.” Notice that the shape is now curving back toward the original lines.
4. ​​Continue to sketch connected, “U” shaped lines, until the shape of the bush is fully enclosed. Notice the overlap of the last two sections of the bush.
5.​​ ​​​Add the rounded texture of additional branches inside the shape of the bush. Do so by crafting curved shapes using connected, “U” shaped lines.
6.​ ​​​​​​Continue to draw additional boughs of the bush using short, connected, “U” shaped lines.
7. ​​Draw additional boughs using connected “U” shaped lines. Notice how the curved shapes of some of the boughs overlap.
8.​​​ ​​​​Adorn your bush with flowers. For each flower, begin with a small circle. Around the circle, draw a ring of small, “U” shaped lines to form the petals.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​Continue to add flowers to your bush, using small circles and “U” shaped lines for each.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​Color your bush. Flowering bushes have blooms in nearly every color imaginable. Azaleas, for example, range from white to pink to red. Lilacs have purple blooms, and forsythia flowers are bright yellow. What kind will your bush be?
You can learn to plant – or at least draw – an entire garden using our selection of plant drawing guides. There, you will find such familiar flowers as roses, tulips, sunflowers, and daisies. You can even learn to draw an entire forest! Then, you can fill your landscape with furry friends using our animal drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Butterfly Garden' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a ​Butterfly Garden
The Complete Butterfly Garden Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Begin by drawing blades of grass. For each blade of grass, use two long, curved lines. The lines should converge at the top until they finally meet in a point. Allow the bottoms of some of the lines to meet in points as well.
2. ​​​Draw your first flower. Begin with a small circle. Then, surround the circle with “U” shaped lines, enclosing each petal.
3. ​​​​​Next, draw another, smaller flower. Again, begin with a small circle. Then, surround the circle with “U” shaped curved lines, enclosing each petal.
4. ​​​Draw stems for each of the flowers. For each stem, use two parallel curved lines. Then, draw more grass behind the flowers. Use curved lines to outline the grass, connected at both the top and bottom in sharp points.
5.​​ ​​​​Draw the flowers’ leaves growing beside the flowers. For each leaf, use two curved lines meeting in a point. Notice that the leaves are somewhat wider than the blades of grass. Fill in any bare spots with additional grass.
6.​ ​​​​​​​Draw tall blades of grass, again using two curved lines meeting in a point for each blade.
7. ​​Begin to draw your butterfly. Beside the tallest blade of grass, draw a tiny circle – the butterfly’s head. Beneath the circle, draw two elongated, rounded shapes – the butterfly’s thorax and abdomen. Finally, connect the butterfly to the grass using short, curved lines – the butterfly’s legs. Butterflies are insects, so they have six legs.
8.​​​ ​​Next, draw the butterfly’s wings. Enclose two irregular curved shapes alongside the butterfly’s body, one larger than the other. Then, enclose a second set of shapes, following the outline of the first.
9.​​ ​​Detail the butterfly. Draw long, curved lines with tiny circles at the tips to indicate the antennae. On the wings, draw a pattern of teardrop shapes, circles, and ovals.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your butterfly and its garden home. Would you like to expand your garden and invite more garden friends? Check out our plant drawing guides, as well as animals such as the bunny, squirrel, hummingbird, and ladybug.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Calla Lily' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Calla Lily
The Complete Calla Lily Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a “U” shaped line to form the base of the first flower.
2. Draw a long, curving line, beginning within the base of the flower. Overlap the top of the “U” shaped line and extend the curved line upward. Draw another, shorter line, meeting the first in a point at the bottom and running parallel to it for about half its length. Draw a third line connected to the first line’s upper point, and enclose the top of the flower by connecting it with the second line.
3. Draw a short, curved line loosely parallel with the other side of the flower. Emerging from the flower’s center, enclose a small oval shape. Below the flower, extend a pair of lines that slowly converge, forming the stem.
4 . Draw a pair of parallel lines alongside the first flower, forming the stem of a second flower.
5. Draw a “U” shaped line at the top of the stem, forming the base of the flower.
6. Draw a curved line, beginning within the flower’s base, touching the top of the “U” shaped line, and ending above the flower. Begin a second line, also within the flower, touching the opposite side of the “U,” and meeting the first line in a point. For each line, draw a short, curved line parallel to half its length, and meeting it in a point within the flower’s base. Connect the two pointed shapes using a short line, and enclose a small oval within the flower’s center.
7. Draw a leaf extending from the stem. Draw two wavy lines that meet in a point. Then, draw the leaf vein by placing a curved line along the length of the leaf.
8. Draw a leaf on the remaining stem. Extend two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point. Draw a vein down the leaf’s center.
9. Draw grasses behind, beside, and between the two flowers. For each blade of grass, use two long, curved lines that meet in a sharp point at the top. Notice that the grasses vary in length and width.
10. Color your calla lilies. Many of these flowers are white or cream with a green base, as in our illustration. Others may be pink, purple, orange, or red.
Don’t forget to check out our other plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Forest' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Forest
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a curved line to outline the trunk of one of the trees.
Then, draw the roots of the tree, using a curved, “S” shaped line to connect the base of the trunk to the side of the page. Draw a “Y” shape using two curved lines to outline the split of the branches.
Draw a series of connected, rounded, “U” shaped lines to enclose the foliage, or leaves, of the tree.
Draw curved lines from the tree trunk to the opposite edge of the page, outlining the curvature of the ground.
Draw a series of curved lines, of various lengths and connecting in sharp points, to form a tuft of grass at the base of the tree.
Draw another tuft of grass, using curved lines connected at sharp points. Continue to draw the ground using gently curved lines.
Outline a second tree in the background. Draw a set of parallel, curved lines to form the trunk. Draw a “U” shaped line between the parallel lines to indicate a fork in the tree branches.
Enclose the foliage of the second tree using connected, rounded, “U” shaped lines. Note the irregular shape of the outline, and how in some places the “U” shaped lines extend into the enclosed figure. This gives the tree a quality of depth.
Draw curved lines to indicate the ground across the horizon. Include another tuft of grass, using short, curved lines connected at sharp points.
Draw a set of vertical, parallel, curved lines to outline a third tree trunk. Draw a curved line shaped line a checkmark to indicate the split in the branches.
Enclose the foliage of the tree using connected, rounded, “U” shaped lines.
Draw a fourth tree. Begin with a set of parallel, curved lines. Draw the fork in the branches using a “U” shaped line. Then, enclose the foliage using connected “U” shaped lines.
Draw another tree. Begin by drawing a set of parallel curved lines. Draw the fork in the branches using a “V” shaped line.
Draw more rolling hills behind the distant trees. Draw a curved line passing behind the trees. Indicate bushes or scrubby plants using a series of connected short, curved lines and “U” shaped lines.
Draw additional trees in the background. Draw two sets of parallel, curved lines. Draw one or more “V” shaped lines at the top of each tree trunk to indicate the branches.
Continue drawing trees. After all, a forest consists of many trees. Some trunks can be partially hidden by others – draw a single curved line near another tree trunk, and include a “V” shaped line to indicate branches.
Draw more scrubby, bushy undergrowth in the background using small, connected “U” shaped lines.
Draw more small plants and grass in the forest. In the foreground, enclose a tuft of grass using curved lines meeting at sharp points. Do the same at the crest of a hill in the middle ground.
Add the detail of bark to your trees. Do so by drawing curved lines of various lengths and swirling, spiral lines along the trunks of the trees.
Color your forest.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Tree' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Tree
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing two parallel lines. The lines should curve toward each other slightly. This will form the trunk of the tree.
Extend a curved line horizontally from each of the parallel lines. Draw another curved line beneath each, connected at a sharp point to the previous line. Connect the most recent lines using a short line. The lines will again meet in a point. You now have roots for your tree.
Begin to draw the forking branches by extending a curved line from the left of the trunk. Above this line, draw three “U” shaped lines – one to the left of the trunk, one crossing the left line of the trunk, and the third at the top of the trunk.
Erase the guide lines from the branches.
Draw another branch on the right side of the tree, using two parallel curved lines and a “U” shaped line.
Form the leafy top of the tree using a series of connected “U” shaped curved lines. These eight lines should connect to the branches on the left side of the tree.
Enclose the scalloped form of the leafy bough using five more “U” shaped, curved lines.
Begin the leafy portion on the right side of the tree by drawing five “U” shaped lines, connected to the branches on the right.
Erase a small portion of the left leafy bough.
Draw another bough, connected to the portion you just erased, using eight “U” shaped lines.
Using five “U” shaped curved lines, enclose the bough on the right side of the tree.
Erase a portion between the right and middle boughs.
Draw three curved lines at the top of the tree, where the left and middle boughs meet.
Add detail to the leafy portion of the tree. Draw three sets of three to five “U” shaped lines within the tree top.
Add detail to the trunk of the tree. Draw a “U” shaped line beneath the central split of the branches. Draw a curved line on each side of the trunk, extending into the roots. Draw a curved line above the middle root.
Draw a bough of four “U” shaped lines to the right of the tree top.
Add an extra branch of two parallel lines between the right branch and the bough.
Draw a circle within the trunk of the tree. Inside the circle, draw a swirl.
Plant your tree in a grassy meadow. Draw grass on each side of the tree by drawing a series of eight short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
Color your tree. You may want to use shades of brown for the trunk and green for the leaves and grass.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Daffodil' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​ ​Daffodil
The Complete Daffodil Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines, diverging from each other at diagonal angles. Notice how the lines form an incomplete bell shape.
2. Connect the lines by drawing a wavy, circular shape. Then, within the shape, draw another wavy, curved line, following the edge of the curved shape. This line should traverse just over half of the interior of the shape.
3. Next, enclose two petals. For each petal, sketch a teardrop shape using two curved lines. The lines should meet in sharp points opposite the bell of the flower.
4. Draw two more petals. Again, use two curved lines to enclose a teardrop shape for each.
5. Enclose two more petals emerging from behind the center of the flower. These petals should also be teardrop shaped, but partially hidden by the bell.
6. Next, draw a stem for the flower. Begin by drawing a long, curved line downward from the blossom. Then, draw another curved line parallel to the first. Allow the lines to meet in a sharp point.
7. Draw a leaf extending from the stem. Use two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point.
8. Draw a second leaf intersecting the bottom of the stem. Use two curved lines to enclose the leaf, and allow them to meet in sharp points at each end. Then, draw an additional curved line through the center of each leaf. These lines form the leaves’ central veins.
9. Detail your flower. Adjust any petals as needed. Draw another wavy, curved line within the bell of the flower to add depth. Then, draw a series of short, curved lines emerging from a central point in the bell. Place a small circle at the end of each. These are the flower’s stamen and anthers, which contain pollen.
10. ​Color your daffodil. Most daffodils are yellow, but they may also be orange, red, white, or pink. Often, the bell of the flower is a different color than the exterior petals.
Why stop with one flower? Fill your page with posies, using our handy, helpful flower drawing guides. Choose from tulips, daisies, sunflowers, roses, lilies, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Dandelion' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a ​Dandelion
The Complete Dandelion Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin drawing the flower’s narrow petals. For each petal, extend two parallel curved lines. Connect the lines on one end using a short, curved line. Notice that the sides of the petals connect to one another in sharp points.
2. ​​​​​​​Some distance from the first set of petals, draw a second set. Again, use sets of parallel lines and connect them using short, curved lines on the ends. Connect the petals to one another, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points. These petals should resemble a mirror image of the first.
3. Next, draw additional petals to connect the existing sets of petals. For each petal, use a set of parallel lines connected on the end by short curved lines. The petals should connect to each other in sharp points.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Fill in petals between the existing petals. Use parallel lines and “V” shaped lines to craft the petals.
​​​​​​​​​​​​​​5. Fill in the gap in the front of the flower with petals. Draw short, horizontal curved lines to indicate the edge of the flower, and then use pairs of parallel, curved lines for each petal.
6. ​​Fill in spaces between the petals with additional petals. Use pairs of curved lines along with “V” shaped lines for each.
7. Extend a pair of long, curved, parallel lines downward from the flower to indicate the stem. Then, from the stem, draw two curved lines at a diagonal angle. Allow the lines to connect in a sharp point.
​​​​​​8. Craft the leaf using curved lines. Extend each squiggly line from the tip of the leaf vein to the middle of the leaf. Connect with the leaf vein to enclose the shape. Repeat on each side.
9. Then, draw the spiky portions of the leaf by forming small, curved triangles. Use the leaf vein for one side of each triangle, along with two curved lines for each.
10. Color your dandelion. Dandelion flowers are yellow in color with deep green leaves and stems.
Would you like to try your skills at drawing other plants and flowers? Allow our plant drawing tutorials to be your guide.​
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Fall Scenery' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Fall Scenery
The Complete Fall Scenery Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two long, curved lines to form the horizon.
2. Draw two curved lines in a vertical position. These will form the trunk of the tree. Use several shorter curved lines to form the roots of the tree, enclosing it at the bottom.
3. Draw a pair of long “U” shaped lines side by side at the top of the tree. These form the tree’s branches. Then, use short, connected, curved lines to draw the cloudlike bunches of leaves. Notice the irregular shapes, as well as how the lines overlap to give the tree depth.
4. Draw a number of leaves falling from the tree. For each leaf, draw a curved line to form the stem and central vein. Then, use two curved lines meeting in a point to outline the leaf itself.
5. Texture the ground. Draw curved lines of different sizes. Near the tree, draw a tuft of grass using short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. Then, draw leaves on the ground. For each leaf, draw two curved lines that meet in points.
6. Many trees bear fruit in the fall. Draw round, circular fruit, both hanging from the tree and on the ground at its base. Did you notice that one piece of fruit is falling from the tree? Note the vertical lines that indicate its motion.
7. Draw more round fruit laying on the ground. You may texture it with short lines.
8. Fill in the background of your scene. Use a series of short, curved lines to enclose cloudlike shrubbery growing in the distance.
9. Texture the ground with additional curved lines, and draw more pointed fallen leaves. Draw more leaves adrift in the air as well; for each, begin with a line to form the stem, then draw the pointed leaf around it. Finally, draw wavy lines to indicate the motion of the blowing wind.
10. Color your scene. Is your tree still hanging on to the green of summer, or is it ablaze with the reds, yellows, and oranges of fall?
Learn to draw more fall scenery when you check out our selection of plant drawing guides.

Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Daisy
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
We will first draw the center of the flower. Don’t forget to leave enough space for the flower’s petals around the center and the stem below it.
Sketch a long wavy line for the stem. Draw four lines inside the circle to divide it into eight equal parts.
Draw eight elongated ovals for the petals. Each petal starts from where we draw the lines dividing the circle.
Add another ring of petals. These are under the first petals and will be partially hidden.
Erase the overlapping lines drawn in the previous step.
Next, we will outline the leaves. Draw a straight, tilted line across the stem. At the ends, add shorter lines that point downwards at an angle. Draw ovals around the lines.
Erase the inner lines from the leaves and the center of the flower.
Sketch irregular, wavy lines around the leaf shapes to make it look more natural. Also, draw a lot of tiny, curvy lines around the center of the flower.
Erase the oval shapes from the leaves. Only the wavy lines should be left.
Make the stem thicker by drawing another line parallel to it. Add some details to the center of the flower; draw a crescent shape in the middle and surround it with a lot of small dots.
You can add a few more details to the flower before coloring it. Add small U-shapes inside the tops of the petals and draw a couple more petals that peak out a little from behind the other petals.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Flower Bouquet' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a Flower Bouquet
The Complete Flower Bouquet Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing your first flower. Draw a circle to form the center of the flower. Then, enclose rounded shapes around the center using “U” shaped lines. These are the flower’s petals.
2. ​​Draw a second flower. Sketch a small circle for the flower’s center, and use “U” shaped lines to enclose the petals.
3. ​​​​Draw the third flower. Draw a circle to form the flower’s center. Then, enclose the petals using “U” shaped lines.
4. ​​Next, you will draw a different type of flower – the tulip. From behind one of the first flowers, extend a pair of straight, parallel lines to form the stem. At the end of the lines, draw a large “U” shaped line. This forms the bottom of the flower. Next, use a series of curved lines in the shape of a “W” to connect the ends of the “U,” enclosing the blossom. Repeat this process on the opposite side of the bouquet to draw another tulip.
5.​​ ​​​Using a “U” shaped line and a “W” shaped line, draw another tulip peeking out from behind the other flowers.
6.​ ​​​​​​Next, sketch the greenery or leaves of the bouquet. For each leaf, use two curved lines that meet in a point on the end. Allow the leaves to connect at the bottom, filling in the spaces between the flowers.
7. ​Continue to draw additional overlapping leaves until the shape of the bouquet is enclosed. Detail some of the leaves by drawing a leaf vein, a curved line down the middle of the leaf.
8.​​​ ​Fill in your bouquet with more small flowers. Draw two parallel lines for the stem, and a circle for the flower’s center. Then, extend a curved line to enclose the petals. Notice the wavy pattern on the end of each petal. Repeat until your bouquet is as full of flowers as you wish.
9.​​ ​Draw the stems of the bouquet. Extend a pair of lines downward, angling towards one another. Connect the lines by enclosing a flattened, irregular shape. This will form the ribbon tied around the bouquet. Extend another set of lines from the ribbon, and connect these lines with a series of jagged, connected, curved lines.Enclose teardrop shapes to form the ribbon’s bow, and pairs of lines that end with a “V” shaped line to form the ribbon’s cut ends. Detail the stems and ribbon with curved lines
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​Color your bouquet, but don’t stop there. We have many other flower drawing guides for you to choose from.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Hibiscus' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a ​Hibiscus
The Complete Hibiscus Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Begin by drawing a small oval to form the center of the flower.
2. ​​​Extend a curved, wavy line from the flower’s center. Curve the line around, bending it to form a point amid the jagged waves, and then reconnect the line to the opposite side of the oval. This forms the first petal. Then, extend another wavy line from the center, curving it to meet the side of the first petal. This encloses the flower’s second petal. Finally, repeat this process on the opposite side of the first petal, forming the third petal.
3. ​​​​​Extend wavy, curved lines from the flower center in order to enclose at least two more petals, filling in the gap at the back of the flower.
4. ​​​Erase portions of the oval to allow the petals to “flow” into the center of the flower. Adjust lines as necessary to make sure that each petal contacts the center.
5.​​ ​​​​Draw two curved lines downward from the flower, parallel to one another. This forms the stem of the flower.
6.​ ​​​​​​​Extend a pair of narrowly spaced, parallel lines upwards from the flower’s center, forming the style. Erase as necessary. At the tip of the style, allow the lines to diverge. Draw a small “V” shaped line between them, and connect the lines at the end using small circles. Extend small, elongated ovals from the style. This forms the stigma, which, together with the style, is called the pistil.
7. ​Draw the leaves. For each leaf, enclose a pointed shape using a series of short lines that meet in jagged points. Draw a curved line down the middle of the leaf to indicate the central vein, and shorter lines extending outward from the vein.
8.​​​ ​Draw another pointed leaf, again outlining it using a series of short, curved lines. Draw a vein down the middle of the leaf, and additional veins diverging from the first.
9.​​ ​​Draw a final leaf, using the same process as described previously. Finally, detail the petals of the flower by extending curved lines outward from the flower’s center.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​Color your hibiscus flower. These tropical flowers come in many colors, such as red, pink, white, orange, and yellow.
Check out our plant drawing guides in order to master even more blooming beauties.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Flower Garden' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a ​Flower Garden
The Complete Flower Garden Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a patch of grass. Draw a straight, horizontal line to outline the bottom of the patch. Then, draw a series of short, curved lines, connected at jagged points. Don’t forget to connect these lines to the horizontal line at each end, fully enclosing the patch of grass.
2. ​​​Next, draw your first flower – a daisy. Above the grass, draw a small circle. Around the circle, connect a series of narrow, “U” shaped lines to form the petals.
3. ​​​​​Draw the flower’s stem. Extend a pair of parallel, curved lines from the flower to the grass. Then, on each side of the stem, extend two short, curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point. These are the flower’s leaves. Draw another curved line down the center of each leaf to indicate the vein.
4. ​​​Draw another, smaller flower. Again, start with a small circle to form the flower’s center. Then, draw ovals around the center to form the petals.
5.​​ ​​​​Draw the short flower’s stem, using a pair of curved lines. Extend curved lines from the stem on each side, meeting in points to form the leaves. Don’t forget to draw the vein down the center of the leaf.
6.​ ​Draw a fancy flower. For the center of this flower, form a circular shape using connected, “U” shaped lines. Then, extend pairs of curved lines outward from the center, meeting in points to form the primary petals. Between each petal, enclose a triangular shape using two curved lines. Repeat this again with even smaller petals between those of each of the two previous layers.
7. ​Draw a stem using a pair of curved lines. Extend leaves from each side of the stem, using two curved lines for each. Then, draw a third curved line to indicate the leaf vein.
8.​​​ ​​Extend the clump of grass, using a straight, horizontal line and jagged, short, curved lines. Note how the bottom of this clump is “higher than” or “behind” the other, giving the picture depth. Then, draw tulips, using a large “U” shaped line topped with a curved “W” shaped line for each. Draw the stems using sets of parallel lines. Enclose the leaf using three curved lines.
9.​​ ​Allow a friendly bee to pollinate your garden. Use a circle for the head, and an oval for the body. Band the body with curved lines for stripes, and don’t forget the triangular stinger. Use wide teardrop shapes for wings, and curved lines with shaded circles at the tips to indicate antennae.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​Color your garden, and don’t forget to check out our other plant drawing guides.

Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Leaf
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw a long curving line and a triangle over its top half.
Add three rectangles. Two of the rectangles start from the same spot but are angled differently. The one on the top goes directly over the tip of the triangle.
Draw three spikes, like Vs, at the ends of each rectangle.
At the bottom of the leaf, draw two triangles.
This step is going to be a little convoluted. Sketch slowly and follow the picture, and it’s going to be fine.
At the bottom, draw two curving lines that connect the stem and the triangles from the previous step.
At the top, draw a long, straight line linking two spikes. Add two small triangles where this line crosses with the rectangle.
Finally, draw two curving lines that connect the small triangles with two spikes.
Erase the inner lines, and the outline of your leaf drawing is almost complete.
Draw U-shapes at the tips of the blade.
Add two narrow, small triangles at the bottom of the leaf.
Erase the inner lines again.
Add some veins for details and make the stalk thicker.
Color your maple leaf in colors you like.
Watch 'How to Draw a Jack O' Lantern' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Jack O' Lantern
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval. This will be the base shape for the jack-o-lantern.
Draw two slightly smaller ovals on the left and right side of your previous oval. Make sure the previous oval is overlapping these two.
Just above the oval on the right side, draw a small oval. This will be the beginning of your jack-o-lantern’s stem.
Now draw in the rest of the stem. Start each line on each end of the oval.
Now draw a leaf shape emerging from the back of the jack-o-lantern’s stem.
Place two circles over the front of the pumpkin. These will be the jack-o-lantern’s eyes. Try and place these eyes as symmetrical as possible.
Draw a circle over both eyes. The circles should be drawn on the side of the oval that is facing inward. This will help you better visualize where the notch in the eyes will be.
Make a triangle in between both eyes. Try to center the triangle as well as possible. This will be your jack-o-lantern’s nose.
Place a crescent shape on the front of your pumpkin, just below the nose. This is the mouth of your jack-o-lantern.
Draw two triangles on the top of the crescent. These will be the teeth. Try and make these triangles as symmetrical as possible.
Add 3D to your jack-o-lantern to give it some depth. On the eyes, draw a line on the side of the circles facing outward. On the nose, draw a line on the bottom of the triangle. On the mouth, draw a line on the bottom of the mouth. Make sure to follow the curves of the facial features.
Add detail.
There are endless amounts of faces and expressions you can give your jack-o-lantern. Make sure to use your imagination and most importantly, create a jack-o-lantern that best suits you!
Color your jack-o-lantern and bring it to life!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Lemon' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Lemon
The Complete Lemon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval, slanted diagonally. This will form the round inside of the cut lemon.
2. Draw a long, curved line, beginning on one side of the lemon, passing under it, and connecting on the opposite side. This forms the outer peel of the cut lemon.
3. Draw an irregular shape behind the lemon. Draw a curved line upward from the sliced lemon, connect a short curved line, then use a long curved line to enclose the rest of the shape. At the protuberance caused by the joining of the lines, add a very short line for depth and detail. This forms a second, uncut lemon, the small line representing the area where a stem could attach the lemon to the tree.
4. Draw two leaves beneath the lemons. Begin by extending a pair of curved lines from the larger lemon, meeting in a point. Then, extend another set of lines, one from the lemon and one from the previous leaf. Allow these to meet at a point. Draw a line down the center of each to represent the leaf veins. Then, extend more short lines – more veins – from the central veins to the edges of the leaves.
5. Draw two leaves extending from beneath the lemons on the opposite side. Use two pairs of lines, allowing each to meet in a point. Let one line extend from the other leaf, giving the appearance of overlapping. Then, use curved lines to draw veins on each leaf.
6. Begin sculpting the segments of the sliced fruit. Draw closely spaced triangles within the oval. The line parallel to the oval should be rounded, as should the corners.
7. Continue drawing fruit segments with rounded bottoms and corners.
8. Continue drawing segments of the sliced lemon, using triangles with rounded bottoms and corners.
9. Complete the circuit of fruit segments, using triangles with rounded corners.
10. Color your lemon. Most lemons are bright yellow. Or, you can turn it into a lime by coloring it green.
Learn to draw apples, pineapples, coconuts, corn, pumpkins, and more using our collection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Lily of the Valley' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Lily of the Valley
The Complete Lily of the Valley Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw a pair of long, wavy, parallel lines. At the top, curve the lines so that they form a hooked shape. This will form the flower’s stem.
2. Draw two sets of of narrowly spaced, curved, parallel lines from one side of the stem. Connect them at the ends. Then, extend two curved lines from each, forming an upside down “U” shape. Draw a shorter curved line at each end of the “U,” angling inward. Finally, connect these using a curved “V” shaped line. This encloses the blossom, sporting three visible petals.
3. Draw another set of narrowly spaced, parallel lines extending from the opposite side of the stem. Draw a flower at its tip, again beginning with an upside down “U” shape. Then, craft the three petals using short, curved lines. Repeat this process to enclose another blossom at the tip of the original stem.
4. Extend two more sets of narrowly spaced, parallel lines from the stem. Draw a flower at the tip of each.
5. Extend two more sets of narrowly spaced, parallel lines from the stem, allowing them to overlap. Then, draw a three-petaled blossom at the end of each.
6. Fill in any empty spots with an additional flower.
7. Next, draw the lily of the valley’s large leaf. Extend three curved lines upward from the bottom and side of the stem. Allow all three lines to converge above the blossoms. The central line forms the vein of the leaf.
8. Draw another, smaller leaf on the opposite side of the stem. Again, use three converging curved lines. At the tip of the leaf, enclose an irregular curved shape. This indicates a bend in the leaf and gives your picture depth.
9. Use curved lines to drawn veins on each leaf.
10.  Color your lily of the valley. The blossoms of lily of the valley are generally white, but they can also be light pink. The leaves are typically dark green.
Complete your garden or bouquet – check out our database of plant drawing guides for even more floral fun.
Watch 'How to Draw a Lily' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Lily
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an irregular oval, pointed and open on one end.
Draw another open, irregular oval below the first, connecting at the point of the opening.
Draw a third open, irregular oval, connected to the second.
Draw a fourth open shape using a curved line. It should connect to the third oval.
Using two curved lines in and “M” shape, draw two more open ovals, closing the gap between the first and the fourth. The resulting shape will resemble an irregular flower.
Next, begin to extend your petals. Use curving lines to extend the three petals on the left of the flower to blunt points.
Use curved lines to extend the three petals on the right to form blunt points.
Erase the lines of the original ovals that cross your newly formed petals.
Now you will begin to draw the lily’s anthers. From the center of the flower, extend two curving, parallel lines. Connect the lines by drawing a small oval between them at the tip.
Draw another anther extending upwards from the flower’s center. Again, draw two curved, parallel lines, connected by a small oval.
Draw two more anthers extending from between the first two anthers. Each will consist of two curved, parallel lines and a small oval.
Erase the guide lines visible within the top two anthers.
Add some detail to the flower’s petals. Begin by drawing a small “U” shaped line at the flower’s center, just below the base of the anthers. Then, extend a graceful curving line from the flower’s center towards the tip of each petal. This forms the detail of the petal vein.
Next, draw the stem. Extend two long, curving, parallel lines from the bottom of the flower. Connect the two lines with a small oval at the bottom.
Begin the leaf. From the right side of the stem, extend a curved line up towards the petal. From that line, extend another, slightly curved line to the right. This will form the vein of the leaf.
Next, draw two wavy lines to form the leaf. The lines will run nearly parallel along the leaf’s stem, bulge outward to form the body of the leaf, and meet at a point just beyond the end of the leaf vein.
You will repeat this process to form a second leaf. Begin by drawing a curved line extending from the left side of the stem.
Draw the leaf using two wavy lines, extending out at the leaf’s body and coming together in a point.
Many lilies have speckled petals. Add this detail to your lily. Draw small dots, circles, and open circles on each side of the petal vein lines. Extend the vein line on two of the petals using a short, straight line.
Color and shade your lily. Lilies come in many colors, but we suggest shading like the well-known Easter lily. Simply shade the petals in tones of white and cream, using a light green to color the anthers, the flower center, and the area around the veins.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​​Mushroom' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Mushroom
The Complete Mushroom Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.Begin by drawing a curved line in the shape of a half circle. Then, enclose the shape using another curved line. This forms the top of the mushroom, called the cap.
2. Draw another curved line across the mushroom cap. This separates the top of the cap from its underside, called the gills. Then, draw two curved lines downward from the cap to form the stem. Connect the lines at the top of the stem using a short, curved line.
3. Draw a bit of grass beneath the mushroom. To draw the scruffy grass, use short, curved lines of different lengths, connecting them with rounded points and at various angles.
4. Draw the second mushroom cap. Use a long, curved line to enclose the shape, rounded on top and flatter on the bottom.
5. Draw a curved line across the second cap. Then, draw two curved lines downward from the cap, forming the stem. Connect the stem at the top using a short, curved line.
6. ​​Using connected, curved lines, draw grass beneath the second mushroom.
7. Draw a third mushroom cap, using a curved line to enclose a small, rounded, triangular shape.
8. Draw a curved line across the cap of the mushroom, and extend two curved lines downward to form the stem. Connect the top of the stem using a short, curved line.
9. ​​​​​Embellish the mushroom caps with spots. To draw the spots, enclose small circles of various sizes. Then, draw a bit more grass, adding texture to the ground.
10. Color your mushrooms. Mushrooms come in many colors – brown, white, pink, purple and green. Bright red mushrooms with red spots tell hungry animals, “Danger! I’m poisonous!”
​Why not use our other handy drawing guides to plant your mushrooms in a peaceful forest,and give them furry woodland animals for company.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Mother's Day Flower' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a Flower for Mother's Day
The Complete Mother’s Day Flower Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Begin by drawing the flower’s stem. Draw two curved lines, narrowly spaced and connected at the bottom.
2. ​​​Next, draw the sepals, or green, leaf-like petals at the base of the flower. For each sepal, draw two curved lines, meeting at the bottom in sharp points. Do not connect the lines at the top. Then, use a curved line to connect the farthest edges of the sepals, enclosing this portion of the flower.
3. ​​​​​Next, draw the blossom of the flower. Extend a long, curved line from each side of the sepal. Then, from each of these lines, draw a shorter, curved line towards the center of the flower. These lines form the exterior petals. Finally, enclose the flower by using two curved lines to form the third and final petal.
4. ​​​Draw a leaf extending from the flower’s stem. Use two curved lines, and allow them to meet in a rounded point at the leaf’s tip. Draw a curved line from the base of the leaf to its center to indicate the vein. Detail the flower by drawing curved lines from the sepal to the center of the flower.
5.​​ ​​​​Write the word “Mom” above the flower, using curving letters.
6.​ ​​​​​​​Draw a curved rectangle beneath the word “Mom,” overlapping the stem of the flower. This will become a banner.
7. ​​Erase the guide lines from within the banner.
8.​​​ ​Write the words “I Love You” inside the rectangle.
9.​​ ​Draw curved lines beneath the word “Mom” to make your picture extra fancy.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your picture. How will you color your flower? What is your mom’s favorite color? Many people give their mothers red flowers called carnations on Mother’s Day.
Don’t stop now! Check out our plant drawing guides for a full bouquet of beautiful flowers, including roses, tulips, daisies, and more. If you need to add a little love, check out our heart drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Palm Tree' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Palm Tree
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
We will start drawing a palm tree from the trunk. Draw a curved line from the top to bottom. Leave enough space for the foliage and ground.
Draw another curved line next to the first one.
Draw the ground as a curved line at the bottom, touching the trunk on both sides.
Add some more ground by drawing additional curved lines at both sides.
Add two more curved lines above the earlier ground lines. These will add a little bit of 3D to the final picture.
Add five curved lines on top of the leaves. These will become the leaves.
Let’s work on the texture of the trunk and bark. Draw curvy lines from one side of the trunk to the other.
Now do the same, but in the opposite direction.
Join the ends of the lines from the two previous steps with short curved lines.
Do the same for the other side.
Erase the extra lines inside the trunk (from steps 1 and 2).
Add another set of lines next to the earlier lines we did for the leaves.
Draw edgy lines to one side of the leaves.
Draw similar edgy lines to the other side of the leaves.
Add some fruits as ovals with a little bit of a wavy line on the top of each fruit.
Let’s add some veins to the leaves. Draw short curvy lines to one side of the leaves.
Also, add the curvy lines to the other side of the leaves,
Next, we will add further texture to the bark. Draw some small dots on the tree trunk.
And finally, add small arrowhead lines at the cross-sections of the bark.
Clean up and color your palm tree drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Peony' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​Peony
The Complete Peony Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a small circle. This will form the flower’s center.
2. ​​​​​Extend short, curved lines outward from the circle, forming the flower’s filaments. At the tip of each, curve the line back upon itself to enclose a circular shape. This forms the flower’s anthers.
3. ​​​​​From the vicinity of the anthers, extend a curved line. Bend the line towards the anthers to enclose an irregular shape. This forms the first petal. Extend another curved line from the side of the petal to the anthers. Continue to draw curved lines, enclosing irregular shapes, until five petals have been formed around the flower’s center.
4. ​​​From the petals, extend another curved line. Bend it back towards the petals, enclosing an irregular shape. Repeat this process to form additional petals. Notice that the petals are of different sizes, some much larger than others.
5.​​ ​Continue to sketch petals, using a curved line to enclose each. The flower should now have two to three layers of petals.
6.​ ​​​​​​​Round out the flower with additional petals, filling in any bare spots. Use a curved line to enclose each petal.
7. ​​​​​​Extend a pair of long, curved lines downward from the flower. Enclose this stem at the bottom using a short line. Then, extend a pair of short lines outward from the stem, erasing guide lines as necessary. From these lines, extend two longer curved lines. These lines should bow outward, then meet in a point, forming a leaf. Draw a curved line down the center of the leaf to form the vein.
8.​​​ ​​​​​Extend a set of short lines from the other side of the stem. Then, draw the leaf using two curved lines that meet in a point. Draw the leaf vein using one or two curved lines.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​Add detail to your flower. Extend diagonal straight lines outward from each leaf vein. Add depth and texture to the petals by sketching two or more curved lines down the length of each.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​Color your peony. Common colors include white, pink, red, purple, and yellow. Notice in our example that two colors are used, and that the center color gradually fades into the other. If you are using colored pencils, you can try this shading technique.
You can appreciate the beauty of one flower, but why not a whole bouquet? Check out our plant drawing guides to help you get started.
Watch 'How to Draw a Pineapple' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a Pineapple
The Complete Pineapple Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the fruit.
2. Stripe your pineapple with parallel curved lines.
3. Draw diagonal, parallel lines crossing your pineapple in the opposite direction.
4. Draw leaves at the top of the pineapple. For each leaf, extend two curved lines from the pineapple, allowing them to meet in a point.
5. Draw another leaf at the crown of the pineapple, using curved lines.
6. Continue drawing leaves atop the pineapple, using two curved lines for each.
7. Add detail and texture to the leaves. Extend a curved line down the center of each.
8. Give the pineapple a spiky texture by drawing a small circle in each section of the checkerboard pattern.
9. Continue drawing small circles until each portion of the checkerboard pattern is filled.
10. Color your pineapple. The leaves of a pineapple are typically green. As for the fruit, unripe pineapples are green or red in color, gradually turning a golden yellow or brown.Would you like to place your pineapple in its native tropical environment? Check out our island drawing tutorial now!
Watch 'How to Draw a Pinecone' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Pinecone
The Complete Pinecone Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a twig. Use long curved lines of different lengths to form the twig. Allow them to meet in sharp or gentle points.
2. Draw another twig emerging from the first. Draw a pair of curved lines and allow them to meet at a sharp point. Then, draw the pine needles emerging from this twig. For each needle, use two curved lines that meet at a sharp point. Notice that the needles near the base of the twig are larger than those near its tip.
3. Draw needles along the longest twig. For each needle, draw two curved lines and allow them to meet at a sharp point.
4. Draw another twig emerging from the bottom of the existing twig. Draw the twig using curved lines that meet in a point. Then, draw needles along the twig, using two curved lines for each, allowing them to meet in a point.
5. Begin to draw the pinecone itself. At the end of the remaining twig, enclose an irregular shape like a rounded, upside-down triangle. Then, enclose a rounded, four-side shape beneath this. Finally, enclose a small rounded triangle beneath the previous shapes. These “leaves” of the pinecone are called scales.
6. Continue drawing overlapping scales. Notice that the scales are shaped like rounded triangles or four-sided shapes, each with their points facing downward.
7. Continue drawing the overlapping scales of the pinecone. Notice that as the pinecone grows longer, it also becomes narrower.
8. Continue to draw the pointed scales of the pinecone. Notice that the scales themselves are smaller than those at the top of the pinecone.
9. Draw pointed, three-sided scales to finish filling out the shape of the pinecone along the edges and the tip.
Color your pinecone. Most pinecones are brown in color, a fine contrast to the dark green of the pine needles.
You’ll find plenty of other trees, including close-ups like this one, among our selection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw​ a Poinsettia' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a Poinsettia
The Complete Poinsettia Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a cluster of small circles. The circles may differ in size and be arranged in an irregular pattern. This forms the center of the flower.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​Begin to draw petals extending from the flower’s center. For each petal, use two curved lines, meeting in a point on each end. The petals may differ in size.
3. ​​Continue drawing petals, using two curved lines for each, until you complete the circuit around the flower. Don’t forget to fill in any gaps with additional petals.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw larger petals emerging from behind the original petals. Again, use long, curved lines that meet in a point at the petal’s tip.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Continue to draw large petals, overlapping one another and emerging from behind the original ring of petals.
6. ​​​​Complete the circuit of large petals, using two curved lines for each. Look for any empty spots among the existing petals, and draw additional petals if necessary.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Add detail to your flower by drawing a vein in each petal. To draw the central vein, extend a slightly curved line from the base of each petal to its tip.
8. ​Begin to draw the poinsettia’s jagged leaves. The leaves should be shaped roughly the same as the petals; the difference lies in the use of several short, curved lines, rather than a single line, forming each side. Allow the short lines to meet in points, forming “C” shaped indentations between each point. Complete the leaf by extending a central vein from its base to its tip.
9. ​Continue drawing leaves until they emerge from all sides of the flower. For each leaf, use many short, curved lines that meet in jagged points, and a long line for the central vein.
10.​ Color your poinsettia. Most poinsettias have red flowers and green leaves. The flowers may also be white, pink, cream, or even blue.
Would you like to try your hand at drawing additional tropical flowers? Check out our wide selection of plant drawing guides.​Or, perhaps you’d like to paint a frosty scene around this symbol of the winter season. Doing so is easy when you use our snowman and snowflake drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Poppy' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a Poppy
The Complete Poppy Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a small oval. Around the oval, draw a series of small, “U” shaped lines, each one connected to the next. This forms the center of the flower.
2. ​​​​​​Beneath the flower’s center, draw a wide “U” shaped line with outward curving tips. Then, connect the tips using a long, wavy line. This forms the first petal of the flower.
3. ​​​Next, draw a long, curved line outward from the center of the flower. Curve the line downwards, and allow it to take on a wavy appearance. Connect it to the side of the first petal. You have now enclosed the second petal. Add depth to the petal using long, curved lines.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​Extend a long, curved line outward from the flower’s center on the opposite side. Again, allow the line to become wavy and turn it toward the first petal. Connect the line to the petal’s tip, enclosing a third petal. Add depth to this petal by sketching long and short curved lines along its length.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Use a wavy line to bridge the gap between the second and third petals, enclosing a fourth petal. Detail this petal, as well as the first petal, with curved lines.
6.​ ​At the junction of each petal to the one beside it, extend a wavy line from the surface of one petal to another. Repeat at each junction. This indicates the presence of additional petals.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​Extend a pair of long, curved, parallel lines downward from the bloom. This forms the flower’s stem.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​Extend two curved lines from the side of the stem, bringing the lines together in a sharp point. This forms a leaf. Draw the vein of the leaf using a curved line.
9.​​ ​​​On the opposite side of the stem, extend three curved lines to form a second leaf.
10. ​​​Color your poppy. The most famous variety is deep red with a black center. However, poppies can come in many colors, such as pink, purple, orange, yellow, or white
​Would you like to test your skills with more flower drawing guides? Our helpful tutorials are here to show you how. Soon, you’ll be drawing a garden all your own​.
Watch 'How to Draw a Pumpkin' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Pumpkin
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin with an ovular eggplant shape, this will be the base shape that we can build on.
On the left and right side of your initial step, draw similar shapes. These shapes should be slightly higher than the past shape and a bit more pointed at the top.
Just above the right side of your pumpkin, draw a small oval shape slightly tilted.
Draw lines from the ends of the oval down to the pumpkin. This will be the stem of your pumpkin.
Draw a curly shape coming from behind the stem of the pumpkin. Draw one line first and then the other next to it.
Behind the shapes drawn in step 2, draw two slightly larger oval shapes. Make sure the lines of these shapes end behind the stem of the pumpkin.
Draw two small half circles behind your oval shapes. This will give some depth and perspective to your pumpkin.
Add detail.
Color your pumpkin and bring it to life!
Watch 'How to Draw a Rose Flower' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Rose Flower
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start by drawing an open sided oval in the center of your page. Draw the oval as if the upper right quarter has been erased.
Draw a smaller arc within the open oval, with its ends meeting the left and bottom sides of the oval.
Use three overlapping arcs to form the first petals. These should form a shape similar to a lumpy circle.
Now, begin using swooping, curved lines to craft more petals. The smaller should attach to the upper right of your drawing. The larger will attach to the first curve, enveloping the bottom left of your drawing.
As you continue to add curved petal lines, note how you can create a “fold” detail in the petal by allowing one line to extend into the center of the petal.
Draw another curved line petal enveloping the bottom left side of the drawing. Note how each petal is slightly larger than the last.
Use curved lines to draw another petal on the upper right hand side. Again, let the upper line extend to form a petal fold.
Use one curved line to form a smaller petal on the bottom left.
Use one curved line to form a petal on the bottom right.
Use one curved line to form a petal on the upper right.
Use one curved line to form a petal on the bottom right.
Use one curved line to fill in the gap in the upper left of the flower with another petal.
Now, add some detail. Place a small curved line within each of the outer five petals, radiating from the center of the flower, two-thirds of the way to the edge of the petal. These lines give the drawing depth.
Continue to add detail to the inner petals. Allow one or two curved lines to radiate from the flower’s center towards the petal edge.
Use two lines to form a curved triangle shape at the upper left corner of the flower. Use two more lines to form a triangular leaflet, slightly overlapping the first.
Draw more leaflets on three more sides of the flower. Opposite the first two leaflets, draw two more.
Between the leaflets, you will outline the leaves. Start with an arcing line for one side of the leaf. Draw a loose S-curve to form the other side of the leaf. Draw three leaves in this way, evenly spaced around the flower.
To draw a central vein in each leaf, begin a curving line at the leaf tip and connect it to the petal at the leaf’s center.
Add veins to the leaves. In each leaf half, draw three to seven straight lines radiating from the central vein to the edge of the leaf.
Finish your drawing by erasing any stray marks and coloring your flower.
Watch 'How to Draw a Simple Rose'  Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Simple Rose
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by sketching a big U. This is the start of the main body of the rose.
Draw a line from the bottom center of the U and down for the stem.
Sketch a small leaf shape from the stem pointing upward over the bottom of the U.
Draw another small leaf next to the one you drew, curving its point slightly downward.
Draw another small leaf next to the first one you drew and to the left of it curving its point slightly downward.
Draw another line next to the stem line.
Similarly, draw another line to the other side of the stem line.
Draw a small circle at the bottom of the stem.
Draw a large leaf extending from and to the right of the stem.
Draw another large leaf extending from and to the left of the stem.
On each of the two leaves, draw a line from the stem down the middle of the leaf to the leaf’s point.
On the left leaf, draw 4 lines evenly spaced from the center line of the leaf to its left edge. Also on the left leaf, draw 4 lines evenly spaced from the center line of the leaf to its right edge. Do the same for the right leaf.
Erase the extra line from the stem.
We will now sketch a petal on the right side of the flower. Begin drawing the petal at the bottom of the U and upward curved like the letter C with the top of the C extended to curve down and in making the petal.
Draw a curved line from the bottom of the petal line drawn in previous step. This line should extend as far up as the top of the left side line of the U, but should be to the right of the left sideline.
Sketch a curved line from the top of the line drawn in the previous step to the top of the petal on the right. This forms the center portion of the rose flower.
Draw a curved line from the left line of the center part of the flower to the outside of the left U line part way down. This forms a petal on the left of the flower.
Draw a line from the bottom of the right petal and U shape upward to the left and past the left line of the center of the flower. This line should extend up almost to the top of the left petal, but not all the way. Erase the tops of the U-shape we drew in the beginning.
Draw a little circle in the center of the top of the flower (center) body. Add two curves behind the flower.
Using colored pencils or crayons fill-in the flower, stem and leaves colors. We have now completed our sketch of a beautiful rose.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a ​Spruce' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​​ a ​Spruce
The Complete Spruce Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing the top or crown of your tree. First, draw an upside down “V” using two curved lines. Then, connect the lines at the bottom using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. The figure should be roughly triangular in shape.
2. ​Next, draw a whorl, or rounded set of branches, beneath the crown. Extend a curved line downward from each side of the crown. Then, connect the lines at the bottom using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
3. ​Draw two more whorls, each a little bigger than the last. For each whorl, extend a curved line downward from each side of the previous whorl. Then, connect the lines at the bottom using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
4.​ Draw a large whorl beneath the previous. Extend a curved line downward from each side of the previous whorl, then connect the lines at the bottom using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
5.​​ ​​Draw another whorl, using two curved lines connect by a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. Notice that the whorls are no longer getting bigger than the last.
6.​ ​Draw another whorl, slightly smaller than the one above it.
7. ​​​​​Draw another small whorl beneath the previous section.
8.​​​ ​​Draw two more whirls, returning to the custom of making them larger than the previous whorls. Notice that the middle section of the final whorl is higher than at its edges. This will allow for the trunk of the tree.
9.​​ ​Draw the spruce’s trunk, using two curved lines. Indicate a fork in the branches using a “V” shaped line with a rounded point. Then, draw the ground beneath the tree. Use overlapping curved lines, complete with patches of shorter lines meeting in jagged points. These indicate tufts of grass.
10. Color your spruce tree. Spruces are often dark green or even blue-green in color.
Want to draw more trees or even a forest inhabited by friendly woodland creatures? Check out our selection of plant and animal drawing tutorials to learn more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Rose with a Stem' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Rose with a Stem
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start by drawing a long, curved line, from the middle of your paper almost all the way to the bottom.
Next, follow the same curve and draw a line on each side of your first line.
Connect the bottoms of the three lines with another curved line. It should start and end at the bottom of each of the exterior lines. You now have a rose stem.
Draw the thorns on the stem. To make a thorn, use two lines to create a triangle, with the base of the triangle being part of the stem. Each triangle should slant upwards. Draw three thorns on each side of the stem.
Next, you will erase your guide line. Erase the first line you drew from the center of the stem. Then, erase the bottom of each triangle on the right side of the stem. To create depth, extend the sides of these curving triangles past the line that is the side of the stem.
Extend a curving arc from the stem, between the bottom two thorns on the right. Extend another arc just above the one you have just drawn. The two arcs should meet in a point.
Draw two more arcs on the left side of the stem, between the two upper thorns. You have just drawn the central veins of the rose’s leaves.
Now you will draw the leaf itself. Start with an arc extending upwards near the base of the leaf. Make a small arc down, then another, longer arc towards the left. Draw two more jagged points in this way, connecting the final arc to the point of the leaf vein. Do the same below the vein, making four jagged points in the process. You now have the outline of your first leaf.
Use a series of arcs to create three jagged points above and four points below the vein of the second leaf. Connect the top and bottom portions of the leaf to the tip of the vein.
Detail your leaves with veins radiating from the central veins. Use five curving lines on each of the four leaf sections, starting from the central vein and radiating to the edge of the leaf.
Use curving lines to create a five pointed, irregular star shape at the top of the stem.
Half way between the stem and the top of the paper, draw a small circle. Then draw a half circle around the first, connected to the first circle on the left side and open on the right side.
Draw a curving line around your small circle in an irregular oval shape, open to the bottom right corner. This will look a little bit like an ear. Then draw a long curving line from the bottom left corner of the “ear,” halfway to the star shape. From the right side of the “ear,” draw another curved line half the length of the first.
Using a series of arcs, create a petal to add depth.
Draw a curved line enveloping the “ear” portion.
Using two curved lines each, draw a petal on each side of the bloom.
Connect the last two petals with a single curved line. Draw another curved line from the middle of the left hand petal to the bottom of the bloom, looping the line to connect with the bottom arc of the left side petal. Draw another curved line from the middle of the right petal to connect with the bottom of the bloom. Then, connect your flower to the star shaped portion of the stem with two simple curved lines.
Draw five more petals around the outside of the bloom using five curved lines.
Draw for curved triangle leaflets at the four corners of the bloom.
Complete your drawing with color and shading.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sunflower' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sunflower
The Complete Sunflower Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the center of the flower, often called the eye or disk.
2. Extend pairs of curved lines from the flower’s eye, allowing the lines in each set to meet in a sharp point. Repeat this process around the entire circle. Thus are formed the flower’s petals.
3. Between each petal, draw a pair of shorter, curved lines, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point. These lines form a second layer of petals behind the first.
4. Between each of the near and far petals, draw a pair of short, curved lines that meet in a point. These triangular figures form yet another layer of petals behind the first two layers.
5. Within the circle of the flower’s eye, draw another, smaller circle, adding detail to the flower’s center.
6. Beneath the flower, extend two long, curving, parallel lines. Allow the lines to meet at a point. This forms the flower’s stem.
7. Extend two curved lines from one side of the stem, allowing them to meet in a point similar to that of the petals. This forms the flower’s leaf. Then, draw a curved line from the base of the leaf to its tip, indicating the leaf vein.
8. Continue to detail the leaf by adding additional veins. Do so by drawing short, straight or slightly curved lines from the central leaf vein to the outside edge of the leaf.
9. Add a random assortment of small dots and circles to the eye of the flower. This indicates the texture of the seed bearing central disk, which is actually a collection of small flowers.
10. Color your sunflower. Most sunflowers are yellow with brown centers and green leaves. Some sunflowers, however, are red, orange, purple, or rust colored.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Strawberry' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Strawberry
The Complete Strawberry Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line like a crooked letter “C.” This outlines one side of the strawberry.
2. Use a second curved line to draw a mirror image of the first, enclosing the figure. Your strawberry outline should resemble a heart with shallow lobes.
3. Next, extend a pair of parallel curved lines from the top of the strawberry. Enclose the lines at the end using a small oval. This represents the strawberry’s stem.
4. Draw an upside down, curved heart shape overlapping the stem. This forms the sepal, a leaf like structure, of the calyx – the green part at the top of the berry. Enclose another teardrop shape, forming a second sepal.
5. Erase guide lines from the sepals.
6. Draw additional sepals. Each should be drawn using curved lines that connect in a point.
7. Erase the guide lines from the sepals.
8. Draw additional sepals to fill in any bare spots. Draw a line down the middle of each sepal to indicate the vein.
9. Draw small ovals across the strawberry to indicate the seeds.
10. Color your strawberry. Most strawberries are red with green sepals and either red or black seeds. Some, though, are pink, or even white with red seeds.
Would you like to cook up some more fruity drawing fun? Check out our selection of plant drawing guides, where you’ll find apples, cherries, pineapples, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sunflower' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sunflower
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a scalloped circle. You may want to draw a circle first as a guide, then erase the circle after adding the scallops.
Draw another, larger, scalloped circle around the first.
Draw five petals, spaced evenly around the scalloped circle. Each petal will consist of two curved lines, extending from the scalloped circle at the flower’s center and coming to a point.
Add five more petals between the first. These will extend from the sides of the first petals.
Add more petals to the left side of your drawing. These four petals will be drawn between the existing petals. The lines you use for these petals will be shorter than the others, the points of all petals ending at the same distance from the flower center.
Continue adding petals to the other side of the flower.
Next, draw the stem. Extend two long, parallel, slightly curved lines down from the flower. Connect the two stem lines at the bottom using a short, curved line.
Draw a long, curved line extending from the right side of the stem. This is the beginning of a leaf.
Extend a long, curved line from the left side of the stem, slightly higher than the one on the right.
To form the stem of each leaf, extend a line from the flower stem, just below each leaf line, to intersect the middle of each leaf line in a point.
Next, draw your leaf. Draw a curved line from the top middle of the leaf stem to meet the end of the leaf line in a point. Extend an S-curved line from the bottom of the leaf stem, also meeting the other leaf lines in a point.
Erase the lines from the interior of your leaf.
Draw the leaf vein by placing one curved line through the middle of the leaf, extending from the leaf stem to the tip. Draw secondary veins from the first using three short, slightly curved lines.
You will now repeat this process for the second leaf. Use two curved lines to form the exterior of the leaf.
Erase the lines from the leaf’s interior.
Draw veins using one long, curved line and three short lines.
Add detail to the flower’s center. Use short, curved lines and short “M” shaped lines to give the interior of the flower a bumpy texture.
Add detail to the petals. Starting with the first five petals you drew, extend a nearly straight line down the center of each, from the flower center to the petal tip.
Repeat this process on all the other petals.
Color your flower. Sunflower petals usually display colors ranging from yellow to orange and the center may be brown or orange.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Tomato' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Tomato
The Complete Tomato Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline the basic shape of the tomato.
2. Draw two overlapping curved lines at the top of the tomato, inside the circle. These lines help define the shape of the tomato.
3. Erase the guide line at the top of the circle.
4. Sketch in the tomato’s stem. Just above the tomato, draw a pair of short, curved lines. Connect them at the top.
5. Use a series curved lines to form a star shape around the stem. The lines should meet in gentle points. This is the leafy part of the fruit, called a sepal, left over from the flower that formed it.
6. Erase guide lines from the sepal.
7. Add depth to the stem and sepal by drawing a curved line beneath the stem. Then, begin to give the tomato a face. Start with the eyebrows, using two curved lines for each. The lines should meet in points on each side.
8. Draw the eyes. For each eye, draw a small circle. Within the circle, draw a small oval. Shade between the two shapes.
9. Draw the tomato’s smiling mouth. First, draw a “U” shaped line. Connect the sides of the “U” using another curved line, and detail the mouth with short, curved lines at each corner. Draw another curved line across the bottom of the “U” to outline the tongue.
10. Color your tomato. Did you know? Drawings of tomatoes are most often shaded red, but tomatoes can come in a wide range of colors. Common hues include green, orange, yellow, and pink. They may also be spotted or striped in combinations of these colors. In 2016, a bluish-black tomato was named the best-tasting tomato in the world. Its flavor came from the same nutrients that color blueberries blue.
Watch 'How to Draw a Tulip' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Tulip
The Complete Tulip Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two long, curved, parallel lines. This will form the tulip’s stem.
2. Draw a long, “U” shaped curved line at the top of the stem. This outlines the tulip’s flower.
3. Draw a curved line across the flower, enclosing a teardrop shape. This outlines one of the flower’s petals.
4. Draw a second curved line across the flower, enclosing another partial teardrop shape. This forms another flower petal.
5. Draw a curved line like an upside down “U” on top of the flower. This encloses yet another petal.
6. Extend two long, curved lines from one side of the flower’s stem, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point. This outlines one of the flower’s leaves.
7. Extend another set of long, curved lines from the flower’s stem. Again, allow the lines to meet in a sharp point, forming the second leaf.
8. At the top of the flower, draw a short, curved line between each of the petals. These lines indicate additional petals within the flower.
9. Add detail to your tulip. Draw short, curved lines of varying lengths along the leaves and petals of the flower. This gives the tulip a sense of texture and depth.
10. Color your beautiful tulip. While often shaded in pink or red, tulips come in all colors and many color combinations, including stripes, patterns that resemble paint spatters, and differently colored petal edges. Tulips may be white, green, orange, purple, or even black, and every color in between.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Watermelon' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Watermelon
The Complete Watermelon Slice Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline the shape of the watermelon.
2. Use curved lines to outline a “T” shape extending from the top of the watermelon. Erase guide lines as necessary. This forms the watermelon’s stem.
3. Draw two sets of wavy lines extending downward from the stem. Allow one to reach the opposite side of the watermelon. For the other pair, allow the lines to meet in a sharp point. These form the first of the watermelon’s characteristic stripes.
4. Draw two more stripes. Extend one set of lines down from the stem, the other up from the bottom of the melon. Allow each to end in a sharp point.
5. Draw more stripes across the watermelon, filling the empty spaces.
6. Next, you will draw a slice of cut watermelon. Draw a wide “U” shaped line, allowing it to overlap the completed watermelon. Then, connect the ends of the “U” using a straight line.
7. Give the slice a three dimensional shape by drawing a curved line from one corner of the shape to the bottom of the shape.
8. Erase the guide lines from behind the watermelon slice.
9. Detail the inside of the slice. Draw a curved line parallel to the original “U” shaped line. This separates the green and flavorless rind from the sweet, pink fruit. Then, draw seeds. Use a teardrop shape for each seed. Notice how the seeds are positioned in a circular pattern, with the pointed end of the teardrop toward the center.
10. Color your watermelon. The outside of the watermelon is typically striped in shades of green. The center of the melon is often pink, red, orange, or yellow.
Hungry for more? Explore additional fruit drawing guides within our selection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Acorns' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Acorns
The Complete Acorns Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two long, curved lines that are roughly parallel to one another. Notice, though, that the lines are farther apart on one end, and closer together on the other. These lines form the twig to which the acorns are attached.
2. Enclose the wide end of the twig using a short, curved line. Extend a pair of short, parallel lines from the middle of the twig. This is the stem that will connect to the acorn cap.
3. Using two curved lines, draw a crescent moon shape dangling from the stem. This is your acorn cap, or cupule.
4. Use a long, curved line to enclose the shape of the acorn, called the nut or pericarp. Notice that the sides are nearly straight, and the small bulge at the tip, the remains of the oak flower’s style.
5. Use curved lines to enclose a second crescent moon shape, partially hidden by the first. Draw a short line to indicate the stem and connect the cap to the main twig.
6. Use a long, curved line to outline the shape of the acorn. Again, note the protrusion at the tip.
7. Draw three long, curved lines extending upwards from the twig, just above the acorns. These will form the veins of the oak leaves.
8. Outline the lobed oak leaf around each vein, using a long, wavy line for each.
9. Extend short, curved lines outward from each leaf vein, forming secondary veins. Detail the acorn caps with cross-hatching.
10. Color your acorns and leaves. Acorns are green when they are young, turning brown as autumn approaches. Your leaves could be green or in fall shades of red, yellow, orange, and brown.
Use our collection of plant drawing guides to expand your forest, or feed your acorns to a friendly squirrel.
Watch 'How to Draw an ​Easter ​Egg Tree' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​an Easter ​​​Egg Tree
The Complete Easter Tree Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
​​​​​​​1. Begin by drawing two long, curved lines in a vertical orientation. These lines form the trunk of the tree. Use a series of short, curved lines to enclose the bottom of the trunk, forming roots. Notice that the roots are marked by points where the lines connect.
2. ​​Draw a “V” shaped line between the long, curved lines of the trunk. The lines of the “V” should be parallel to the curved lines, outlining narrow branches. Then, use a connected series of curved lines to begin the cloud-like leaves of the tree.
3. Enclose the leaf bunches using additional curved lines. Then, extend a pair of curved lines upward, forming another branch. Draw a small “V” shaped line between the curved lines, forking the branch.
4. Draw a pair of curved lines extending outward from the trunk of the tree. Draw a small “V” to fork the branch at the end. Then, employ a series of curved lines to enclose another cloud-like bunch of leaves.
5. ​Extend additional pairs of lines to form branches on the opposite side of the tree. Use a connected series of curved lines to delicately enclose cloud-like leaves at the end of each branch.
6. Stripe your tree’s trunk with diagonal curved lines. Add the texture of leaves using narrow “U” shaped lines. Fill in with additional branches and leaf clusters where needed.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw the eggs. For each, draw an oval. If hanging below the tree, draw a set of narrowly spaced parallel lines from the egg to the branch or leaves. This indicates the string.
8. Decorate the eggs with combinations of stripes, lines, circles, and zigzags.
9. Draw several sets of short, curved lines, meeting in jagged points, beneath the tree. These indicate shaggy grass.
10. ​​​​​Color you tree. What color will it be? Color it green and brown like a real tree, or make it fanciful with rainbow colors. The choice is yours.
Would you like to learn to draw an entire forest? Check out our selection of plant drawing guides for more fun tree drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw an Apple' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Apple
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw two slightly overlapping circles.
Next, draw two slightly bigger overlapping circles above the first ones.
Draw four short lines to connect the edges of the circles.
Now, erase the lines inside. Your apple is beginning to take its shape.
Make a vertical line through the center of the apple. Make it light. This line is for guidance only and will be erased later.
Make a short, slightly curving line where the stem meets fruit. Draw the stem as two parallel curving lines.
Add an oval for the leaf.
Inside the leaf, draw the center line and two arrow-ends in the both ends of the leaf.
Erase the extra lines from the leaf and curve the center line slightly. Now the leaf look much more natural.
Finally, color your apple as you like.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an Orchid' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ an Orchid
The Complete Orchid Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing two curved lines. The lines should be oppositely diagonal, descending toward one another. This begins the flower’s petals.
2. ​Continue to sketch the petals. For each, extend a curved line outward, then double it back toward the flower’s center. Repeat on each side to form a mirror image.
3. ​Orchids have three additional petals, called sepals. Draw the first using a curved line to enclose the space between and above the existing petals. Then, draw two sepals below, using a curved line for each.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Next, you will draw the column, or center of the flower. First, draw a circular shape, leaving an opening at the bottom. Curve the lines downward around this opening. Beneath this, enclose an irregular shape, again leaving the bottom open and extending a set of parallel lines from it. Erase guide lines as necessary.
5.​​ Next, you will draw the labellum, or lip, of the orchid. Enclose an irregular curved shape, roughly triangular, around the bottom of the column. This should fill the gap between the petals, completely enclosing the flower.
6.​ ​​​Next, you will draw the throat of the flower. From each side of the column, enclose a curved, irregular shape. Repeat to form a mirror image on each side.
7. ​​Add details to your flower. Texture the petals and sepals with curved lines. Draw lines down the length of each section of the throat, and draw dots on the lower portion of the column, called the stigmatic surface.
8.​​​ ​Extend two curving lines downward from the flower, forming the stem.
9.​​ ​​​​​From the stem, extend a pair of narrowly spaced curved lines. From these, extend three lines that meet in a sharp point. This forms the leaf with its vein.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your orchid. Orchids are diverse and come in many colors. The most common varieties are pink, white, or purple, but they may also be yellow, red, blue, green, or combinations of these colors.
Don’t stop there! Check out our other flower drawing guides today.​
Watch 'How to Draw Cartoon Flowers' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Cartoon Flowers
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a long, wavy line.
Draw another wavy line parallel to the first. The lines should be closer to one another at the top than at the bottom. This forms the main stem.
Draw one curved line extending from each side of the stem.
Draw another curved line parallel to each of the curved lines you just drew. These lines form secondary stems.
Draw a circle above the tip of the left secondary stem.
Draw five petals around the circle. Each petal will consist of a curved line in the shape of a very rounded “M.” The bottom two petals should connect the flower to its stem.
Draw a circle above the main stem.
Draw five “M” shapped petals around the circle. The bottom petals will connect this flower to the main stem.
Draw a circle above the right secondary stem.
Draw five loosely “M” shaped petals around the circle. The bottom two petals will connect the flower to its stem.
Now, you will add detail to the petals. Beginning with the flower on the left, add a wavy line to the interior of each petal. Each line should extend from the flower’s circle center, form three humps, then attach to the center once more.
Repeat this process to add detail to the center flower’s petals.
Repeat the process to add detail to the petals of right flower, again using five wavy lines.
Extend a short, curved line from each side of the center flower’s stem. Draw similar lines from the left side of the left secondary stem, and the right side of the right secondary stem. These lines will form the veins of leaves.
Outline the leaves using two curved lines each. The lines should extend from the stem and come together to form a point with the leaf vein line.
Draw the grass in which your flower is growing. To draw grass, use short, curved lines that come together in a point, both at their base and at their tip. The result will resemble connected curving triangles with no base line.
Complete the mound of grass by connecting the far sides with a straight line. Add detail to the veins of the leaves by drawing one to two short, slightly curving lines extending from both sides of each leaf vein.
Now, you will add faces to your flowers. Within the center circle of each flower, draw two smaller circles for eyes. Below the eyes, form a smiling mouth by drawing a “U” shaped line. Draw a short line perpendicular to each end of the “U” shaped line.
Within each eye circle, draw a smaller circle. You can determine the direction in which the flower appears to be looking by drawing this small circle on that side of the eye. Draw a tiny circle within each small circle. Shade the small circle.
Complete your sketch by coloring your flowers. Make them any color you want – have fun!
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Corn Cob' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Corn Cob
The Complete Corn Cob Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a long, curved line, like an incomplete letter “C.” This will form the corn’s husk, or leafy part.
2. ​Outline the outer edge of the opposite husk using two overlapping curved lines.
3. ​​​​​​Continue to outline the leafy husk. Use a long, curved line to enclose a teardrop-like shape alongside the original line. Draw a bend in the opposite husk using a series of connected, curved lines. Notice the downward facing point of the leaf.
4. ​​​​​​Begin to outline the corn on its cob. First, draw a curved line extending from the first portion of the husk, forming a “V” shape where the husk splits. Then, use a series of short, curved, connected lines to form the bumpy kernels of corn.
5.​ ​​Continue to draw short, curved, connected lines on the opposite side of the corn cob. Continue until the elongated shape of the cob is enclosed.
6. ​Complete the husk by drawing a curved line from the corn cob to the leaf tip. Draw the cut stalk at the bottom of the corn cob by enclosing a narrow shape using a short, curved line.
7. ​​​​Detail the husk using curved lines of various lengths. The lines should originate from the cut stalk, the bends in the leaves, and the interior of the husk near the cob.
8. ​​​​​It’s an ear with eyes! An ear of corn, that is. Draw two circles within the corn cob to indicate the eyes. Within each eye, draw a smaller circle to form the pupil, and a tiny circle for the eye’s sparkle. Shade the pupil. Draw a short, thick curve above each eye to indicate brows, and a “U” shaped line to form the mouth. Place a small dot at each end of the mouth.
9. ​​​​​​Finally, detail the corn cob with kernels of corn. Do this by drawing small “C” shaped lines all about the cob. Notice that one kernel is strategically placed to form the nose.
10. ​​​​​​​Color your corn cob. Most corn is yellow, white, or a combination of those colors, but Indian corn can come in almost any color of the rainbow, including red, brown, blue, and green.
​Hungry for more? Check out our other fruit and vegetable drawing tutorials, including pumpkins and apples.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Dogwood Flowers' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Dogwood Flowers
The Complete Dogwood Flowers Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by making a circular shape using small, connected, “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the flower.
2. ​​​​​​​Around the center, sketch the flower’s four petals. Notice that the petals are rounded, like irregular circles, but with a “C” shaped notch in the middle.
3. ​​​​​​​Emerging from behind one of the petals, draw a semi-circle, again using small, connected, “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the second flower.
4. ​Using curved lines, sketch the four petals belonging to the second flower. Again, note the “C” shaped notch in each of the rounded petals.
5.​​ ​​​A short distance from the first two blooms, draw another circular shape made from small “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the third flower.
6.​ ​Using curved lines, sketch the four rounded petals of this third and final flower. Don’t forget the “C” shaped notches.
7. ​​​​​​​​Draw a forked stem between the two sets of flowers using sets of parallel lines. Extend another set of stem lines past the flowers, and enclose the end of the stem using a small oval. Then, sketch the crinkled leaves of the dogwood tree. Use two wavy lines for each leaf, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​Detail the centers of the flowers by drawing a smaller circle made of connected “U” shaped lines within each. Draw a curved line down the length of each leaf to indicate the vein. Fill in any bare spots with additional leaves.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Add the finishing touches to your dogwood flowers. Texture the petals using curved lines, extended outward from the center of the flower.
10. ​​​​​ ​​Color your dogwood flowers. Some dogwood blooms are solid white, others solid pink, and some a combination of both colors. Why not try shading your flowers like the ones in our example, pink on the tips and fading to white at the center? Colored pencils can make this shading easy and fun.
Would you like to send other secret flower messages? Check out our plant drawing guides to brush up on your skills, and learn the meanings of various flowers from resources such as the Old Farmer’s Almanac.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Fall Tree' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​​Fall Tree
The Complete Fall Tree Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing a large “V” shape using long, curved lines. Notice that the sides of the “V” are not straight, but wavy. Draw a short, curved line extending from one side of the “V.” This forms the basic outline of the tree’s branches.
2. ​​Draw another set of long, curved lines. The lines should by parallel to one another below the “V,” then diverge to follow the contours of the “V” shape before meeting the lines of the “V” in sharp points. Draw several short, curved, overlapping lines to enclose the bottom of the figure. This forms the trunk of the tree.
3. ​​​​​​​Draw curved lines of various lengths extending from the upper branches. Allow some of the lines to branch further, using shorter curved lines.
4. ​Using two lines, draw another wide branch extending from the tree’s trunk. Then, draw additional small branches using curved lines.
5.​ ​​​Not all of the leaves have fallen yet. Draw leaves lining all of the tree’s branches. For each leaf, use two short, curved lines, attached to the branch on one end and meeting in a gentle point at the other.
6. ​​Draw a bushy, leafy mass behind the detailed leaves just drawn. Enclose the irregular shape using short, curved lines, allowing this to meet in jagged points.
7. ​​​​​Give the tree some ground to stand on. Draw a horizon line using short short strokes. Draw leaves falling from the tree. For each leaf, enclose a small teardrop-like shape.
8. ​​​​​​Fill in any bare spots with additional branches, twigs, and leaves. Texture and detail the trunk using curved lines of various lengths.
9. ​​​​​​​Draw a second horizon line beyond the first. Texture the ground with curved and wavy lines, and sketch a few fallen leaves laying on the ground.
10. ​Color your fall tree. Will it be golden yellow or copper, red orange or brown? The choice is yours.
Why stop there? You can draw a whole forest of trees, complete with detailed leaves and friendly woodland animals.
Learn How to Draw Flowers
Learn How to Draw Trees
Learn How to Draw Fruits
Watch 'How to Draw Falling Leaves' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Falling Leaves
The Complete Falling Leaves Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the trunk of the tree. Use two long, straight lines to craft the basic outline. Notice that the tree is not straight, but bent in the wind. Use several short lines that meet in jagged points to enclose the roots at the bottom of the tree. Then, use two “V” shaped lines of different sizes to indicate the forked branches at the top of the tree.
2. Draw lines extending outward from the tree trunk and each of the branches. Then, extend more lines, some of them forked. These indicate the tree’s smaller branches.
3. Use a connected series of short, curved lines to enclose the cloudlike form of a cluster of leaves.
4. Draw another cloudlike bunch of leaves, again using short, curved, connected lines. Note, too, how the lines overlap, giving the leaf cluster depth.
5. Draw a third fluffy cluster of leaves. Again, use a series of short, curved lines to outline the shape.
6. Next, draw leaves adrift in the wind. For each leaf, use two short, curved lines to form a teardrop or double-pointed shape.
7. Draw curving lines around the leaves to indicate the blowing wind. Draw a few more pointed leaves using curved lines. Begin the horizon line by extending a curved line outward from the lower trunk of the tree. Draw a few leaves laying on the ground, using short, curved lines connected at points to outline each.
8. Extend a long horizon line on both sides of the tree. Draw additional leaves of various sizes laying on the ground.
9. Draw a few individual leaves still clinging to the tree. For each, begin by extending a short, curved line from one of the branches. This will form the leaf vein. Then, use two curved lines to enclose the pointed shape of the leaf. Draw a few more leaves on the ground, and use a series of connected, short, curved lines to outline the cloudlike shape of shrubbery in the background.
10. Color your windswept tree. Is it green in spring, or displaying autumn colors of red, yellow, orange, and brown?
Draw more trees, leaves, or even an entire forest using our selection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Magnolia Flower' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ Magnolia Flower
The Complete Magnolia Flower Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a series of curved lines to form the stem. First, draw a pair of curved lines that are parallel at the bottom, but diverge in a “V” shape as they extend upward. Let one line extend farther than the other. Then, draw a pair of “V” shaped lines parallel to the previous lines.
2. At the tip of one stem, enclose two irregular curved shapes. Notice that one shape is smaller than the other. This forms the base of the flower.
3. ​​​​​​On the other stem, draw a large, columnar, irregular shape. Then, use a curved line to enclose a similar shape partially covered by the first. This forms the first petals of the second flower.
4. Using curved lines, enclose a small, pointed petal and another elongate petal on the side of the second flower.
5. Use a pair of curved lines to enclose the large, elongate petal of the first flower, allowing them to meet in a gentle point. Enclose another large petal beside the first, then sketch several smaller petals between and beside the larger petals.
6. ​​​​​​​​Extend another pair of curved, parallel lines from the split in the stem, forming another twig.
7. ​​​​​​​Using curved lines, enclose a pair of narrow, curved petals at the tip of the new stem. Then, enclose a large petal between the narrow ones. Finally, draw a few smaller petals peeking from behind the larger petal.
8. Draw a number of leaves emerging from the stem. For each leaf, begin with a single curved line. This forms the central leaf vein. Then, enclose the leaf around the vein, using two curved lines that meet in a gentle point.
9. Add detail and texture to your flowers. Extend diagonal, straight lines outward from each leaf vein. Draw pairs of short, curved lines along the stem in various places. Extend curved lines of different lengths along the length of each flower, beginning at the base of each petal.
10. Color your magnolia blossoms. Southern magnolias have dark green, shiny leaves and white or cream colored flowers. Pink flowered varieties are also common.
​Would you like to draw an entire bouquet of beautiful spring flowers? Well, don’t stop now! Check out our other plant drawing guides for more floral inspiration.
Watch 'How to Draw Pears' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Pears
The Complete Pears Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will serve as a guide line to form the rest of the fruit.
2. Outline the pear. Use a long, curved line to enclose a rounded shape on top of the circle. Allow the line to cross into the circle, defining the shape. At the bottom of the circle, use two overlapping, short curved lines to detail the “belly button” of the fruit, where part of the flower was once attached.
3. Erase the original circle, leaving a clean outline of the pear. This shape is known as “piriform” or “pyriform.”
4. Use a long, curved line to enclose the second pear, hanging at a diagonal angle and somewhat hidden behind the first.
5. Draw a stem above the pears. Begin with two curved, parallel lines. Enclose the lines using a short line on one end and a small oval on the other.
6. From the twig, extend two pairs of lines downward, one to each fruit. Notice that the lines diverge, growing farther apart as they reach the fruit. Enclose the ends using a series of connected, jagged lines.
7. Erase the guide lines from the stems.
8. Draw two narrowly spaced parallel lines extending from the twig to form a leaf’s stem. Use curved lines of various lengths, meeting at jagged points, to outline the leaf. Then, outline a second leaf behind the first.
9. Draw veins across the leaves. Use a long, curved line for the central vein, and additional lines for the secondary veins.
10. Color your pears. Depending on the variety, pears range in color from green to yellow, from red to brown. They may contain combinations of all these colors.
Hungry for more fruit flavored drawing guides? We’ve got you covered with lemons, apples, pineapples, pumpkins, and more. Check them out among our selection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Baseball Bat' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Baseball Bat
The Complete Baseball Bat Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a small oval. Draw a curved line within the oval, parallel with one side, to give the image a three-dimensional appearance. This forms the knob at the bottom of the bat.
2. Draw a set of straight, parallel lines extending upward from the knob. This forms the handle, or grip, of the bat.
3. Extend a long line from one side of the handle. Notice how the line curves slightly outward. This part of the bat is called the taper. Then, curve the line sharply to outline the top of the bat.
4. Continue to extend the long, curved line, fully enclosing the bat’s barrel and taper.
5. Draw a long, curved line parallel to one side of the bat’s barrel. This gives the bat a rounded, three-dimensional appearance.
6. Draw two short, curved lines across the bat where the taper meets the grip. Shade between these two lines.
7. to detail the bat with a wooden texture. Use curved lines across the grip and knob.
8. Texture the barrel of the bat so that it also looks like wood. Do so using curved, “U” shaped lines of various lengths, as well as dots.
9. Draw three more short, parallel lines across the taper of the bat. Shade between two of them. Fill in any remaining space with “U” shaped lines for texture.
10. Color your baseball bat. Wooden bats are typically brown, but aluminum baseball bats can come in any color.
Get your head in the game and fill out your team with our people drawing guides. Equip them with help from our object drawing guides, where you’ll find baseballs, baseball caps, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Backpack' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Backpack
The Complete Backpack Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. This will form the bottom of the backpack.
2. Draw a long, arching curved line above the existing line, connecting to it on each corner. This outlines the front of the backpack.
3. Draw another curved line from the top of the backpack to its bottom. This gives the backpack a three-dimensional appearance.
4. Add details and stitching to your backpack. Draw a curved line parallel to the side of the backpack. Outline a pocket or pouch on the front using a curved line. The resulting shape should overlap the outline of the backpack, and sport loosely squared corners. Draw a curved line parallel to the side of this pocket, giving it depth. Then, draw a pair of curved lines to connect the pocket to the top of the backpack.
5. Embellish the front of the pocket with a pair of curved, horizontal lines. Enclose an irregular rounded shape near the top of the backpack, and draw a line across it. Use several curved lines to outline the handle on top of the backpack.
6. Erase guide lines as necessary. Outline the shoulder straps using pairs of curved lines. Draw the buckle used to adjust strap length by placing one pointed teardrop shape within another.
7. Draw a pair of short curved lines across the side of the backpack, and enclose a “U” shape beneath it. Draw a cross hatching pattern – diagonal lines crossing one another at perpendicular angles – within the shape to form a mesh water bottle holder.
8. Draw school supplies in the foremost pocket. Enclose a rectangular shape to form a notebook, with small circles at the top indicating the spiral binding. Draw wavy lines across it to represent writing. Next to the notebook, enclose the rectangular and pointed shapes of a ruler and pencil. Draw curved lines across the pocket to form the bulges of additional school supplies.
9. Add the detail of zipper teeth along the seems by drawing small, straight lines across them. Draw a water bottle in the side pocket using a number of curved lines.
10. Color your backpack. Backpacks can be found in every color imaginable, so feel free to be creative. Will yours be your favorite color, or will it match the official colors of your school?
Watch 'How to Draw a Baseball Cap' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Baseball Cap
The Complete Baseball Cap Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. This will form the front of the cap, where the bill is attached.
2. Draw a long, curved line above the first, attaching the lines on both ends. You will enclose an irregular shape, forming the top of the hat, called the crown.
3. Extend a long, curved line from one side of the crown. Use it to enclose a curved rectangular shape before attaching on the other side of the crown face. This forms the bill of the cap.
4. Use a curved line to enclose a teardrop shape beneath the bill. This forms the curved side of the bill, giving the cap a three-dimensional appearance. Detail the bill further by drawing a curved line parallel to the bottom of the teardrop shape. This indicates the front edge of the bill. Finally, connect the back of the cap’s crown to the bill using a short, curved line.
5. Draw a long, curved line parallel to the edge of the bill. This indicates the stitching.
6. Next, you will begin to sketch in the various panels that make up the crown of the cap. Draw a curved line from the top of the cap to the bill, and another from the back of the cap to the previous line.
7. Draw another curved line from the top of the cap to the bill, mirroring the first on the opposite side. Then, indicate stitching using curved lines, but notice that the lines are not solid. Draw these lines alongside the previous lines and down the middle of the crown.
8. Draw two additional broken lines down the center of the crown. Then, use a short curved line to enclose the button on the top of the cap. Draw a small circle on each side of the cap’s front panel. Then, draw a smaller circle within each circle. These are small holes called eyelets that help with ventilation.
9. Detail the bill of the cap with three parallel, roughly “L” shaped lines.
10. Color your baseball cap. What are the colors of your favorite team?
Many caps bear the mascot of their team, most often an animal or another character. Check out our animal drawing guides so that you can add a mascot to your cap, too.
Watch 'How to Draw a Baseball' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Baseball
The Complete Baseball Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline your baseball.
2. Draw a curved line inside the baseball, attached to the circle on both ends. The line should enclose about one-quarter of the space inside the circle. This line indicates the seam of the baseball.
3. Draw another curved line on the opposite side of the baseball, creating a mirror image. This indicates the baseball’s second seam.
4. Draw two short, curved, parallel lines extending from the seam. Allow them to connect at the end, enclosing a curved shape. Then, extend two more lines on the opposite side of the seam. These should be a mirror image of the first, forming an arrowhead shape when viewed together. Repeat this pattern all along the seam. These lines form the stitches that hold the baseball together.
5. Continue drawing stitches until you have covered the length of the seam. For each stitch, use pairs of parallel lines to form an arrowhead pattern across the seam.
6. Begin drawing stitches along the seam on the opposite side of the baseball. For each stitch, enclose curved shapes on each side of the seam using short, curved lines.
7. Continue to draw stitches along the baseball’s seam.
8. Draw additional stitches along the baseball’s seams until the seams are completely covered in stitches.
9. Add dimension to your baseball by drawing long, curved lines parallel to the outer circle. This gives the ball a three-dimensional, rounded appearance.
10. Color your baseball. In our example, we’ve shaded the ball brown to resemble early leather baseballs – or those that have been well-used and covered in dust. Classically, baseballs are white with red stitching. Others used in training or for children’s play may be bright yellow or a variety of other colors.
Feeling sporty? Get your head in the game and learn to draw other types of sports equipment, such as a basketball or a soccer ball.
Watch 'How to Draw a Basketball Hoop' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Basketball Hoop
The Complete Basketball Hoop Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a flattened oval. Then, draw a smaller oval inside the first. This forms the rim of the basketball hoop.
2. Extend two straight lines horizontally from one side of the rim. The top line should be longer than the other. Then, extend lines downward from the ends of these lines. Connect them at the bottom using a straight line. This connects the rim to the backboard.
3. Draw a curved line downward from one side of the rim. This begins the outline of the net.
4. Draw a curved line extending downward from the other side of the rim. Connect the lines at the bottom using a wavy, irregular line. Then, draw diagonal parallel lines across the net. Follow these by parallel lines on the opposite diagonal. The result will be a crosshatching or checkerboard pattern that indicates the strings of the net.
5. Draw perpendicular diagonal lines in the inner oval of the hoop, indicating the opposite side of the net.
6. Draw a circle overlapping the bottom of the net. This will become the basketball.
7. Draw a curved line across the basketball. Perpendicular to this line, draw three additional curved lines. These are the seams of the basketball.
8. Draw a four-sided shape using four straight lines. The extension from the rim should be in the center of this shape. This is the basketball goal’s backboard.
9. Draw a smaller four-sided shape within the first. Extend a pair of straight lines from the rim to the point that it attaches to the backboard, giving the rim additional support.
Swish! That was nothing but net. Check out our people drawing guides for tips on how to assemble your team.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Basketball' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​Basketball
The Complete Basketball Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This outlines the shape of the basketball.
2. ​​​​Draw a curved line across the basketball, not centered but positioned close to one side. This is the first of the ball’s ribs, or recessed lines.
3. ​​​​Draw another curved line traveling in the opposite direction, crossing the first at a perpendicular angle. This is the ball’s second rib.
4. ​​Draw a curved line from the side of the basketball to the vertical curved line, forming another rib.
5.​​ ​​​Continue the rib drawn in the previous step on the other side of the vertical line, attaching it to the edge of the ball on the opposite side.
6.​ ​​​​​​Next, draw a curved rib line below the horizontal line, traveling from the side of the ball to the vertical rib line.
7. ​​​​​Continue the line on the other side of the vertical rib, extending to the side of the ball.
8.​​​ ​​​​Next, you will give the recessed lines depth, providing the ball with a three dimensional appearance. To do this, draw a curved line parallel to both the vertical and horizontal rib lines.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​Draw curved lines parallel to the upper and lower rib lines as well. Then, carefully erase the guide lines from the points that the lines cross one another. This allows for a solid recessed line.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​Color your basketball. The most common colors are orange with black ribs. Basketballs, however, can be found in a wide variety of colors. Early balls were brown. Some have white markings or represent the national colors of a country, such as red, white, and blue. Others may be pink, black, green, or other colors.
Are you in the mood for more fun and games? Learn to draw soccer balls, teddy bears, and more using our easy object drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Beginner Mandala' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Mandala
The Complete Beginner Mandala Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle.
2. Draw a second circle surrounding the first. This completes the outline of the mandala.
3. Draw two more circles within the first, one inside the other. The mandala should now resemble a wheel.
4. Enclose nearly circular shapes between the inner circle and the outer circles. For each shape, use two curved lines. The result should resemble the petals of a flower.
5. Add detail within each petal. Enclose a nearly circular shape at the base of each petal, with an ovular shape surrounding it.
6. Draw many, many short, straight lines between the outmost circles. In the center of the drawing, sketch a very small circle with another circle inside it.
7. Continue adding detail to your mandala. At the base of each petal, within the inner circle, draw tiny circles.
8. In the center of the drawing, around the tiny central circles, draw two open petal shapes. For each petal, use two curved lines, open to the center but meeting in sharp points at the inner circle.
9. Draw two more petals in the center of the mandala, connecting with the first to enclose a flower-like design.
10. Color your mandala. Be creative!
Watch 'How to Draw a Bike' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Bike
The Complete Bike Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the front wheel of the bike.
2. Draw the bicycle’s rear wheel using a second circle.
3. Draw a slightly smaller circle within each of the previous circles. This completes the outline of the bicycle tires.
4. Begin to draw the structure of the bike. Draw a narrow, horizontal rectangle above the rear wheel. Extend a pair of diagonal, parallel lines from each of the wheels, and connect them using another set of parallel lines. Where the rear wheel’s diagonal lines meet the horizontal lines, draw an additional set of parallel, diagonal lines crossing in the opposite direction.
5. Draw another set of diagonal, parallel lines extending from the front wheel’s original set of diagonals. Enclose a curved shape overlapping the front tire, forming a fender.
6. Erase the guide lines from overlapping shapes.
7. Draw two small circles in the center of each wheel, one inside the other. For the front wheel, extend a short pair of parallel lines from the central circles; then, extend a second set of lines upwards at a slight angle from the first. Draw a circle between the wheels, and enclose a teardrop shape around it, connected to the small circles of the rear wheel. This forms the bike’s chain.
8. Extend two curved lines from the circle of the rear wheel to that in the middle, completing the bike’s chain. Enclose an irregular shape like a backwards “C” to form the handle bars. Use another irregular shape for the seat, and give it dimension by drawing a curved line across it.
9. Draw the pedal using a small rectangle, and texture it with vertical, straight lines. Use straight lines to draw the spokes extending from each wheel’s central circle to its tire.
10. Color your bike. Will it be shiny and red, or pink and sparkly? Mint green, a favorite color for vintage bikes? The choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw a Boat' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Boat
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a long, gently curving line. This will form the top side of the boat’s hull.
Draw another, shorter curved line connected to the first at a sharp angle.
Connect the two lines using a slightly curved line. You now have the form of the boat’s deck.
From each end of the deck, draw a curved line descending downward.
On the “pointed” end of the boat – the front, or bow – draw a three dimensional rectangular prism. Begin by drawing a rhombus, or irregular square shape. Then, draw long, curved lines downward from the rhombus. This shape adds the detail of a plank of wood to the boat.
Draw a wavy line along the bottom of the boat to indicate water.
Draw a long, curved line parallel to the first line you drew. Extend the line past the end of the boat, and complete this plank of wood by enclosing the shape using two short lines.
Draw parallel lines on each side of the boat’s back side, or stern. Connect the lines using two short lines.
Draw a long, curved line parallel to the far side of the boat.
Draw long, curved lines horizontally across the side of the boat to indicate the wooden planks the boat is made of.
Draw two long, curved, parallel lines upwards from the center of the boat. Connect the lines using a small oval. This forms the boat’s mast, which will hold the sail.
Draw two long, curved lines from the top of the mast to the deck of the boat. These lines outline the sail. This forward sail is known as the headsail.
Connect the lines of the sail using a curved line.
Erase the guide lines from the sail.
Draw another sail using two curved lines on the opposite side of the mast. Connect the end of the sail to the stern of the boat using a curved line. This rear sail is called the mainsail.
Decorate the mainsail with numerous wavy lines.
Draw a pennant, or flag, atop the mast. Extend the mast using straight lines. Draw three curved lines to enclose the roughly triangular shape of the pennant.
Add detail to the deck by drawing straight, parallel lines across it.
Draw more water using wavy lines.
Color your boat. Sail boats often have brightly colored sails, so be creative.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cake' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Cake
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
To begin, draw two rectangles. The one in the bottom will be a bit wider than the one on the top.
Draw two more layers of the cake.
Sketch curvy lines on top of each rectangle. These lines will give some depth to the drawing.
Now, draw another set of short curving lines above and on both sides of each rectangle.
Erase extra lines. The cake is beginning to take its shape.
Let’s add some icing and whipped cream; draw irregular curvy lines on each cake layer.
Next, we’ll add some cherries; draw small circles on top of each layer.
Sketch some narrow rectangles for candles.
Add short lines for candle wicks and cherry stems. The stems curve more than the wicks.
Draw raindrop shapes for the candle light and for a big scoop of whipped cream.
Draw a large oval at the bottom of the birthday cake for the dish.
Add a of couple cherries to the dish.
Erase any stray lines, trace your amazing cake with a heavy black line, and color it.
Watch 'How to Draw a Book' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Book
The Complete Book Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, diagonal line. This will become the spine of the book.
2. From the lower end of the first line, extend a second straight line. This forms the bottom edge of the book.
3. From the top of the original line, extend a third straight line. This will form the top edge of the book.
4. Enclose the shape with a straight line. You now have a rhombus, a shape similar to a diamond. This shape will form the front cover of your book.
5. Draw a short, curved line shaped like the letter “C” at three of the book’s corners. These lines form the edges of the pages.
6. Connect each set of “C” shaped lines using a long, straight line. You now have the basic three dimensional outline of the book.
7. Add detail to the cover of your book. Using two straight lines, draw a backwards letter “L” parallel to the bottom and edge of the cover. Draw another straight line along the spine, from the top of the cover to the “L” shaped line. Then, draw two straight, parallel lines across the cover of the book, in the area that the title would be printed.
8. Add texture to the book’s pages. Along the bottom of side of the book, draw several straight, parallel lines between the “C” shaped lines.
9. Give the book a back cover. Enclose a narrow space along the bottom of the spine and bottom of the pages using a short, curved line and several long, straight lines.
10. Color your book. Be creative!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Burrito' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Burrito
The Complete Burrito Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line that doubles back upon itself. Notice that the curves of the line form rounded “corners” as if you are drawing an irregular rectangle. Leave the shape open at the end. It should resemble an upturned cup, as if pouring something out.
2. Draw a long, “C” shaped line crossing into the shape and back out again. This forms the folded edge of the tortilla.
3. Draw a long, nearly straight line connecting the two ends of the “C” shaped line just drawn. Extend the line just beyond the edge of the “C.”
4. Erase the guide lines from the burrito, leaving a clean outline.
5. Enclose the end of the burrito, outlining the lettuce and other fillings at the same time. Use a long, curved line, zigzagging back and forth in an irregular pattern.
6. Continue with the wavy, zigzag line. Form a circular shape, enclosing the end of the burrito.
7. Detail the burrito’s fillings. Enclose rounded shapes, and draw swirls within them. Draw irregular shapes of various sizes.
8. Continue to detail the fillings with wavy lines, short lines, and ovals.
9. Detail the tortilla. Enclose circles, ovals, and irregular rounded shapes on its surface.
What kind of burritos do you like to eat?
10. Color the tortilla and burrito filling to match your favorite meal.
How about a little dessert? Learn to draw cakes, pies, and cupcakes using out handy drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Burger' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Burger
The Complete Burger Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This forms, not the top or bottom, but the middle of the burger – the patty.
2. Draw a long, curved line beneath the oval, connected to it on opposite sides. This gives the patty a three-dimensional appearance.
3. Draw another long, curved line beneath the figure, connected to the patty on opposite sides. This forms the lower portion of the hamburger’s bun.
4. Draw a large oval intersecting the upper half of the patty. This will become the top half of the bun.
5. Erase the guide lines from the bun.
6. Draw some toppings on the burger. From under the top bun, extend a pair of curved lines that meet in a point. Draw a line down the middle, and you’ve got a leaf of lettuce. Next, draw some tomatoes. Using two curved lines, draw a half circle within a half circle. Draw dots to indicate seeds. Then, sketch an irregular form using a series of connected, “U” shaped lines.
7. Draw more lettuce and tomatoes. Sketch a leaf like shape using short, curved lines that connect at jagged points. Then, enclose a half circle within another half circle, adorned with seed like dots.
8. Next, you’ll draw even more lettuce and a slice of cheese. For the cheese, enclose triangle shapes extending from beneath the toppings and two different points. Draw a line across each, parallel to one side of the triangle, to give the cheese a three-dimensional appearance. Erase guide lines as necessary. For the lettuce, use curved lines that meet in sharp points.
9. It is a sesame seed bun. Draw the seeds using curved lines that meet in rounded points on each end.
10. Color your burger.
Still hungry? Check out our other food themed drawing guides. We’ve got cakes, cookies, candy, and more to delight your artistic pallet.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Candle' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​​ Candle
The Complete Candle Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Begin by drawing a flattened oval. This will form the top of the candle.
2. ​​​​​​Outline the sides of the candle by drawing a long, straight line downward from each side of the oval.
3. ​​​​​Connect the straight lines using a curved line. This completes the cylinder, the basic shape of the candle.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​Using curved lines, enclose irregular shapes along the outside edge of the oval. These represent drippings of melted candle wax.
5.​ ​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the original oval.
6. ​​​​Draw a curved line across the top of the candle; the line should be in the center, not touching the edges. Then, draw another curved line upwards from the previous line. This forms the candle’s wick, the cloth or wooden material that burns.
7. ​​​​​​​​​Draw the candle’s flame. To draw the flame, extend two curved lines upwards from the middle of the wick, allowing them to meet in a sharp point. The finished flame should resemble a teardrop shape.
8. ​​​​​​​​​​Draw irregular “U” shaped lines of different sizes along the side of the candle, indicating dripping wax. Erase guide lines as necessary.
9. ​Draw short, straight lines emanating like a halo from the flame. These lines indicate the candle’s glow.
10. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Color your candle. In our example, the candle is a light yellow, resembling early tallow candles. Today, candles come in many colors, so be creative. A candle’s color often hints at its scent – do you have a set of scented markers? If so, you can color a scented candle!
Would you like to expand your pyrotechnic drawing skills? If so, use our easy tutorials to draw other objects set aflame, including a cake with candles, a campfire, smoke and flames, a baby dragon, and the Pokemon Charizard.
Watch 'How to Draw a Camera' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a Camera
The Complete Camera Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rectangle – four straight lines, four right angles. This will form the camera body.
2. In each corner of the rectangle, draw a short, curved line. This will serve to round the edges of the camera.
3. Erase the corners of the rectangle, leaving the curved lines. You now have a clean camera body outline.
4. On top of the camera, enclose two small, elongated rectangles. These will serve as buttons that control the camera.
5. On the other side of the camera’s top, draw another, slightly larger rectangle. Connect the rectangle to the camera body by drawing a short, curved line. This forms another of the camera’s controls.
6.  In the middle of the camera body, draw a large circle. Sketch a slightly smaller circle within the first. This outlines the camera’s lens, the round glass protrusion that allows you to focus on an image.
7. Inside the lens, draw another circle. Draw another, smaller circle within it. This forms the inner housing of the lens.
8. Add details to the front of the camera. Draw a small rectangle in the upper corner of the camera body. Draw a few straight, diagonal lines across it, texturing the glass. This indicates the camera’s flash, the bright light that allows you to take pictures. Next, draw two circles of differing widths in the bottom corner.
9. Many cameras have an ergonomic finger grip on the front to aid you in not dropping the camera. To draw this, sketch three identical rectangles beside the lens, opposite the flash.
10. Color your camera. At one time, most cameras were brown or black in color, but today, they come in many shades, including red, white, and yellow. What is your camera going to take a picture of? Why not go on a photo safari with our animal drawing guides?.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Car' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Cartoon Car
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a horizontal, curved line.
Draw another curved line on top of the first to create an enclosed shape.
Draw a short curved line downwards from where the original lines connect. On the other side, draw a longer, more rounded curved line from the corresponding point.
Enclose the shape by drawing a long, curved line. This will form the car’s body.
Draw a short, horizontal curved line where the top of the car meets the body.
Outline the wheels on the left side of the car. Do this by drawing two half circles on the lower portion of the car’s body.
Erase guide lines from the wheels and from where the bottom and top of the car meet.
Draw the windows. Draw two curved lines to enclose two rounded rectangular shapes within the car’s top.
Add details to the windows by drawing two curved, parallel lines across each. When complete, this will look like reflections on the windows.
Draw the wheels. Draw two complete circles on the left side of the car. For the far wheel, draw a half-circle beneath the car’s front.
Give the tires some dimensions. Do this by drawing a curved line to the right of each tire. This produces a three dimensional effect. Also, draw the rear bumper using a short, curved line.
Draw the hubcaps by placing a smaller circle within each wheel.
Add detail to the body of the car. Draw two curved lines extending from the front windshield to outline the hood. Draw two more curved lines extending downward from the left window to outline the door, and draw a teardrop shape for the door handle. Draw curves around each of the wheels.
Draw the front bumper. Begin with a curved line just inside the body of the car, and use a second curved line to produce a rounded rectangular shape.
Erase the guide lines from within the bumper.
To draw headlights, place two circles above the bumper.
Draw a smaller circle within each circle. Add depth to the bumper using a long, horizontal curved line and a short, vertical curved line.
Now, you can give the car a face. Draw another, smaller circle within each headlight circle. The headlights will serve as the eyes. Draw a mouth between the eyes using two “U” shaped curved lines.
Within each eye circle, draw two more circles. Shade the innermost circle. Draw two curved lines within the mouth, one on top and one on the bottom. Shade between these lines.
Color your cartoon car.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Castle' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Castle
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing three straight lines that meet at right angles, forming the shape of a square with no bottom. This will outline the front of the castle.
Draw a curved line within the open square. Extend straight lines downward from the curve, and connect these to the sides of the square using short, curved lines. You have now outlined the castle doorway.
Extend horizontal straight lines from the sides of the square. Draw a straight line downward from each previous line, and enclose the form using a curved line. You have just extended the castle walls to form towers.
Extend the top line of each tower, then draw a straight line upwards. Form the top of the tower wall by using short, straight lines to draw a convex and concave square pattern.
You will now draw a similar, but larger, pattern atop the front of the castle. Extend the top line of the castle front on each side, and draw short, straight lines upwards. Then, use short, straight lines to draw a pattern of convex and concave rectangles, forming the upper wall.
Draw a slightly smaller archway within the arch of the door, and connect it to the castle front using short, straight lines. Enclose the shape of the doorway using a straight line. Enclose rectangular shapes on each side of the castle, one taller than the other.
Enclose rectangular shapes atop the castle front, again making one shape larger than the other.
Draw the upper wall on each of the previous shapes. Extend the upper line of each shape, then use short, straight lines to draw a convex and concave rectangular pattern
Draw another tower extending from the side of the castle. Use short, straight lines to draw a convex and concave rectangular pattern, forming the upper wall of the tower.
Enclose a triangle atop each of the tall towers using two straight lines. This will form the tower roof.
Draw a long, narrow rectangle on top of the left castle wall. On the right, draw the upper wall of the small tower using short, straight lines to form a pattern of convex and concave rectangles.
Enclose a triangular roof above the small tower. Extend a curved line upward from the portion of the castle wall on the left. Draw a wall of convex and concave rectangles atop the curved line to enclose this portion of the castle roof.
Draw vertical lines across the arched doorway to indicate planks of wood.
Draw a narrow, horizontal rectangle across the doorway.
Draw windows on the castle towers. Begin by drawing a square shape with no top. Then, enclose the shape using a curved line. Finally, draw a set of perpendicular lines across the window.
Add the detail of shingles to the tower roofs. For the triangular roofs, draw curved horizontal lines. Then draw short, straight lines between the curves. For the flat portion of the roof, draw straight horizontal lines connected by short, curved lines.
Add the detail of stone to the castle. Draw squares and rectangles of various sizes across the castle walls.
Draw flags, or pennants, atop the towers. Extend a straight, vertical line from each tower. Place a dot at the end of each line. Then, draw two curved lines extending outward, allowing the lines to meet in a point to form the flag.
Place your castle on solid ground. Extend gently curving lines from the sides of the castle to indicate the horizon. From the castle gate, draw two straight lines that gradually diverge. This forms a path or road to the castle gate. Detail the terrain by adding straight lines across the road and grassy patches of short, curved lines across the ground.
Erase the extra lines from the gate.
Color your castle. Shade in brown or gray to indicate realism, or make it pink or purple for a pretty fairy tale princess.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon House' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a House
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a parallelogram, or slanted square.
Draw a curved line to the left of each of the diagonal lines.
Erase the diagonal guide lines.
Draw two curved, parallel lines extending diagonally from the corner of the parallelogram.
Draw another curved line parallel to the first two. Connect the lines using short, straight lines.
Draw a straight line extending downwards from each of the three visible corners of the roof. Connect the lines using straight lines.
Draw a curved line parallel to the diagonal line of the roof. Extend a short, straight line from each of the corners, and connect these using a long, straight line.
Erase the guide lines from the roof.
Draw a straight line across the bottom of each wall of the house.
Enclose a partial oval shape on the front of the house using a long, curved line. This will form the door.
Draw a rectangle extending upwards from the roof. Draw a short, straight line extending diagonally from the bottom of the rectangle. Draw a straight line upwards from this point, and connect it to the rectangle using a straight line. This will form the chimney.
Draw a straight line across the top of the chimney. Draw three short, curved lines from this line to each of the corners of the chimney.
Erase the guide lines from the chimney and from the door.
Draw a series of wavy, scalloped lines across the roof to indicate shingles.
Draw two short, straight lines in the middle of the wall. From each line, extend two straight lines upwards. Connect these lines using a curved line. These enclosed shapes will form the windows.
Draw two sets of overlapping, perpendicular lines across each window. Draw a series of straight, vertical lines across the door. Draw a small circle to serve as the door knob.
Draw a circle within a circle above the door to form another window. Draw a number of irregular oval shapes of various sizes between the bottom of the house and the line on the wall. This will texture the house’s foundation and represent stone.
Draw two sets of curved, perpendicular lines across the circular window. Draw two long, curving lines above the chimney, meeting in a point on each end. This represents smoke rising from the chimney.
Place your house in a lovely setting. Draw a series of curved lines in the sky to represent clouds. Use a series of connected curved lines to form the horizon line near the base of the house. Extend a set of curving lines from the house’s door, forming a walking path. Draw several more sets of connected, curved lines to indicate tufts of grass.
Color your cartoon house. Be creative!
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Revolver' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Gun
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a rectangle.
Draw a curved line from the top of the rectangle, extending outside the rectangle. From this point, extend another curved line inwards. Draw two more curved lines along the bottom and corner of the rectangle.
Draw two curved lines beneath the rectangle, matching up to the lines within the rectangle.
Within the oval just formed, enclose an irregular shape using a curved line. This is the gun’s trigger.
Erase the guide lines formed by the original rectangle.
Extend two long, curved lines downward from the left side of the figure. Connect the lines using an additional curved line.
In the center of the figure, draw a square. Draw a curved line from corner to corner on the left exterior side of the square.
Draw two straight, parallel lines extending horizontally from the upper right corner of the square. Connect the lines using a short, curved line.
Extend two more parallel lines below the first set. Connect the lines using a short, curved line.
Extend a third set of parallel lines beneath the second set. Connect the lines using a short, curved line.
Draw a long, narrow rectangle extending from the right side of the figure.
Draw another, slightly shorter, narrow rectangle below the first.
Enclose a roughly triangular shape above the gun barrel using a short, curved line.
Draw a short, curved line, enclosing a shape at the top left corner of the gun.
Use a long, curved line to enclose an irregular shape on the left side of the gun.
Draw two small rectangles in the central portion of the gun. Draw a short, horizontal line through the center of each rectangle.
Draw a circle in the middle of the gun grip. Draw a curved line through the middle of the circle.
Texture the gun grip using a cross hatching technique. To draw cross hatching, draw a number of parallel, diagonal lines in one direction. Then, draw parallel, diagonal lines running in the opposite direction, crossing the first lines at perpendicular angles. This forms a tic-tac-toe or checkerboard pattern.
Add detail to the gun. Draw long, straight lines along the gun barrel. Shade the bottom of the barrel and the central portion of the gun using short, closely spaced lines.
Color the gun. To color it in a classic style, shade the handle brown and the gun itself in various shades of grey.
Watch 'How to Draw a Chain' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Chain
The Complete Chain Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. Then, draw a smaller oval within the oval. This is the first link of the chain.
2. Draw another set of ovals – one slightly smaller and located within the other – overlapping the first set of ovals. This will form the second link of the chain.
3. Erase the guide lines from the links where they overlap. Notice that the links seem to be locked securely together.
4. Draw another oval overlapping the last link of the chain. Draw a smaller oval within it, forming another link.
5. Erase the guide lines from the last two links of the chain.
6. Draw an oval overlapping the last link in the chain, and a smaller oval within it. Then, draw yet another oval overlapping this link. Draw a smaller oval within it. The chain is now five links long.
7. Erase the guide lines from the overlapping sections of the last three links of the chain.
8. For the next link, you can try a different technique. Draw the overlapping oval within an oval, but allow it to stop rather than intersect the previous link of the chain. Erase guide lines as necessary.
9. Draw another link of the chain, erasing guide lines as necessary. This completes our drawing guide, but you don’t have to stop there – you can continue drawing links until your chain reaches any length you desire.
Color your chain. Notice how two different shades are used to give the chain a shiny appearance. Will it be gold, silver, or metallic grey? Will it become a necklace, secure a prisoner, or protect a treasure? Use your imagination, because the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Cheese' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cheese
The Complete Cheese Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a triangle. Each of the three sides should be a different length, with the longest side on the bottom of the shape. This outlines the top of the triangular cheese wedge.
2. Draw a straight line down from each of the triangle’s bottom corners. This outlines the sides of the cheese.
3. Connect the vertical lines using another straight line. This fully outlines the shape of the cheese.
4. Draw a small half circle along the bottom of the cheese. Erase the straight line, forming a hole or air bubble characteristic of certain types of cheese.
5. Draw another half circle along the top of the side of the cheese. Again, erase the straight line, forming another hole.
6. Draw a small circle on the side of the cheese, forming another hole.
7. Draw another circle on the side of the cheese. Draw a diagonal curved line through each of the circles to give the hole a three dimensional appearance.
8. Draw a circle on top of the cheese. Draw a curved line through it, forming another three-dimensional hole.
9. Draw a half circle on the back of the cheese, and erase the straight line from beneath it. Draw two more circles of different sizes on the side of the cheese, with a curved line through each. Draw a curved line along the inside of the first half circle drawn, along the bottom of the cheese.
Color your cheese. Will it be creamy white like Swiss cheese, bright orange like sharp cheddar, yellow, red, or a combination of colors? The choice is yours.
Mice are famous for eating cheese. Learn to draw a mouse or an entire meal using our handy drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Chef Hat' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Chef Hat
The Complete Chef Hat Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a narrow oval. This will form the opening of the hat.
2. Draw a curved line upward from each end of the oval. These lines form the sides of the hat.
3. Draw a line across the bottom of the hat, parallel to the top of the original oval. This gives the hat a band.
4. Draw a roughly “S” shaped curved line at the top of one of the hat’s sides. Connect another curved line and “S” shaped line to the first. This forms the base of the hat’s puffy top.
5. Draw branching curved lines between the lines of the previous step and the side of the hat. These lines also form the base of the hat’s top, but they do not connect to previously drawn lines.
6. Draw a curved line from the hat’s side, encircling the “S” shaped lines.
7. Draw another curved line extending from the opposite side of the hat, looping around to form the top of the hat.
8. Draw a curved, loosely “S” shaped line to enclose the top of the hat, allowing the line to overlap with previously drawn lines.
9. Detail the hat. Draw a curved line inside the original oval, forming the band at the bottom of the hat. Use a series of curved lines to make each of four loops indicating the folds of fabric on the base of the hat. Allow the lines to double back upon themselves.
10. Color your chef’s hat. Such hats are usually white to match the long chef’s coat and apron, but they may come in a variety of colors.
Ready to get cooking? Check out our cake, hamburger, and burrito drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Coffee Cup Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Coffee Cup
The Complete Coffee Cup Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a horizontal oval. This will form the open rim of the cup.
2. From one side of the oval, begin drawing a curved line roughly parallel to the shape of the oval. Take the line beneath the oval, and connect it on the opposite side. Then, draw two curved lines downward from the sides of the oval, outlining the sides of the cup. Finally, connect these using a curved line.
3. Draw a curved line within the oval, following the curvature of the top of the cup. This indicates the liquid inside the cup. Then, texture the liquid using curved lines of various sizes to indicate ripples.
4. Draw the cup’s handle. You will draw it at an angle to give it a three dimensional appearance. Draw two “C” shaped lines extending from the cup, roughly parallel and with one smaller than the other. Connect them with a curved line at each end.Use another curved line to enclose a curved shape at the top of the handle. Give the handle dimension and depth by drawing a long, curved line across the bottom of the handle.
5. Erase guide lines from the cup’s handle.
6. Draw a saucer beneath the cup. Enclose an oval around the cup’s base; part of the shape will be hidden by the cup itself. Then, draw a long, curved line from one side of the saucer to the other to give it a three dimensional appearance.
7. Draw a small oval around the base of the cup, indicating the indentation of the saucer.
8. Draw curved lines around the top of the saucer, giving it further depth.
9. Draw some coffee beans. Each coffee bean should be round or oval shaped. Add details by drawing lines down the bean, or by enclosing a round shape within it to indicate the split half.
Color your cup and saucer. Coffee mugs come in many colors and designs, so be creative.
Are you hungry for more food drawing fun? You’ll find fruits and veggies among our plant drawing guides, or check out our man-made objects drawing guide, where you’ll find cakes, pizzas, candies, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Coffin' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Coffin
The Complete Coffin Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by using straight lines to outline an irregular hexagon, or six-sided, shape. This is the lid of the coffin. Notice that the box is wider at the top to accommodate the person’s shoulders.
2. Give the coffin lid a three-dimensional appearance. Extend a short straight line downward from each of the near corners of the lid. Then, connect these lines using longer straight lines.
3. Use straight lines to outline another irregular hexagon shape, identical to the first, partially covered by the coffin lid. This will form the opening of the coffin itself. Then, outline another shape parallel to the coffin, slightly smaller than and within the boundaries of the previous. Connect the corners of the two shapes using straight lines.
4. Extend straight lines downward from each of the near corners of the coffin. Connect these using longer straight lines. This outlines the complete coffin.
5. Draw a cross, like a lowercase letter “t,” on the lid of the coffin. Crosses have been used to decorate coffins for centuries.
6. Detail the coffin so that it appears to be made of wooden boards. Draw long straight lines down the length of the coffin and its lid, as well as shorter lines in the opposite direction.
7. Draw a small rectangle just above the cross on the coffin’s lid. Use curved lines to sketch two curved, wide “U” shapes on the sides of the coffin; these are the handles used to carry the coffin. These are referred to as “coffin furniture.”
8. Draw another handle near the front of the coffin, using curved lines. Outline small “T” shapes on the top of the coffin. These might be used to lower the coffin into the ground on ropes. Draw more lines for texture as desired.
9. Outline small “T” shapes on the opposite side of the coffin, erasing guide lines as necessary. Write the letters “RIP” within the small rectangle. This stands for the words “Rest in peace.”
Color your coffin.
Who will find their final resting place inside? Check out our people drawing guides for more sketching fun.
Watch 'How to Draw a Christmas Stocking' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Christmas Stocking
The Complete Christmas Stocking Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two diagonal curved lines, parallel to one another. Draw curved lines upward from each end of the bottom line, nearly connecting with the top line. This forms the cuff of the stocking.
2. Draw a long curved line downward from one side of the cuff. Double it back upon itself, and connect it to the opposite side of the cuff. This forms the stocking itself.
3. Begin to decorate the stocking. Use curved lines that meet at sharp points to outline the shape of a pine tree. For the trunk, draw two straight lines connected by a short straight line.
4. Outline “X” shapes using curved lines. These could be stars, snowflakes, or stitches on the stocking.
5. Decorate the cuff of the stocking by drawing many parallel, wavy lines.
6. Draw a package sticking out of the top of the stocking. Use three straight lines to outline a rectangular shape. Then, use two more straight lines to enclose a rectangular shape to one side of the first. Finally, enclose a rectangular shape at the top using two straight lines, giving the package a three-dimensional appearance.
7. Draw a small circle on the package, and use curved lines to enclose the bow on either side of it. Draw pairs of curved lines to form the ribbons, concluding in a “V” shaped line. Finally, use pairs of straight lines to draw the ribbons that surround the package. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. Draw a second package. Use slightly curved lines to outline its rectangular shape. Then, use a small circle, curved lines, and a “V” shaped line to draw the ribbons and bow.
9. Extend curved lines from behind the packages then double them back upon themselves to enclose a “J” shape. Band each shape with curved lines, forming candy canes.
Color your stocking. Many stockings are in the “classic” Christmas colors of green and red, but they can come in any color you could imagine.
Watch 'How to Draw a Compass' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Compass
The Complete Compass Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline the shape of the compass.
2. Within the original circle, draw two more circles, each smaller than the other. This outlines the metal case of the compass.
3. In the center of the compass, draw two small circles, one within the other. This forms the pivot which supports the compass’s arrow shaped needle.
4. Extend two curved lines downward from the compass’s central point, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point. This forms one side of the compass needle.
5. Extend a pair of curved lines upward from the compass center. Allow the lines to meet in a sharp point. This completes the balanced compass needle.
6. Erase guide lines from the center of the compass.
7. Detail the dial, or face, of the compass. Draw a small triangle on each side of the compass needle, and sketch a short, straight line on each side of the triangles. Around the outside of the dial, draw four equidistant small triangles, one at the top, bottom, left, and right sides. Draw short, straight lines along the dial edge between these triangles. If this were a real compass, these markings would allow you to read it.
8. Draw a directional letter at each of the triangles. Write the letter “N” for north at the top, “S” for south at the bottom, “W” for west at the left, and “E” for east at the right.
9. Draw a small oval on top of the compass, and add depth using a short, curved line. This would allow you to attach the compass to a chain or similar object.
10. Color your compass. Can you paint with all the colors of the wind?
Watch 'How to Draw a Crown' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Crown
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a straight, horizontal line. Above this, draw a slightly curved line, parallel to the first. This will form the base of the crown, the part that touches the head.
Connect the lines using short, curved lines.
Within the enclosed shape, draw another long, straight line parallel to the first. Also draw a curved line, parallel to the first.
From each end of the shape, extend a long “?” shaped line upwards – the left hand question mark, will, of course, appear backwards. Then, connect these lines using a shorter curved line.
Decorate your crown with a scalloped edge. Do this by extending a short, curved line upwards from each end of the crown base. Then, make a series of connected, “U” shaped lines that meet in sharp points between the two lines. At equal intervals, instead of a sharp point, draw a short, straight line between the “U” shaped lines.
Within the shape just enclosed, draw another series of “U” shaped lines. The lines will form curved triangle shapes with the base of the crown. Above each short, straight line draw a parallel line, and connect the two using short, curved lines. From the sides of the crown, extend a straight line and three curved lines, allowing them to meet in two sharp points. The lines will form the familiar fleur de lis pattern.
Above the central portion of the crown, draw a straight, vertical line. On each end of this line, draw a set of curving lines, ending in a point. From each of these curves, extend a curved line to meet in a point with the straight line, forming a third fleur de lis.
From the fleur de lis shapes on the side of the crown, extend two sets of long, curved, parallel lines that stretch to the top of the crown.
From the central fleur de lis, extend two curved lines upward. Connect them using a straight line, and draw a second straight line parallel to the first. Connect the parallel lines using short, curved lines. Above this, draw two curved lines extending upward. Connect these lines with a horizontal straight line.
Above the center of the crown, draw a circle within a circle. Extend a set of curved lines from each side of the circle, and connect the curves using scalloped, curved lines, forming a wing shape on each side.
Enclose another winglike shape within each wing.
Enclose a triangular shape between each set of fleur de lis using two curved lines. Draw a small circle atop each triangle.
Erase any guide lines.
Draw a diamond within a diamond on the band of the crown.
Draw sets of small circles around the band of the crown.
Two two flattened ovals within the band of the crown.
Draw flattened ovals within the ovals.
From the triangle shape between the fleur de lis, extend a series of connected circles, resembling a string of beads, to the top of the crown.
Repeat this process on the opposite side.
Color the crown. Throughout history, red, purple, blue, and gold have been symbolic of royalty.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Cute Pencil' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Pencil
The Complete Cute Pencil Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two slightly curved, vertical, parallel lines. These form the sides of the pencil.
2. Draw three horizontal, parallel curved lines at the top of the pencil. Connect the lines on each end using short, curved lines. This forms the ferrule, the crimped piece of metal that that holds the eraser on the pencil.
3. Use a long, curved line to enclose the shape of the eraser.
4. Enclose the bottom of the pencil using a series of jagged, “V” shaped lines. This is called the collar bottom, formed by sharpening the pencil.
5. Draw a “V” shaped line at the bottom of the pencil, forming the collar, or wooden tip of the pencil. Draw a straight line across the bottom of the collar, and shade beneath it. The line is the collar top, or the boundary between the collar and the graphite used for writing. The shaded portion forms the graphite tip.
6. Take the cuteness factor up a notch by giving this pencil a smiling face. Draw two ovals to form the eyes. Within each eye, draw a smaller oval, and a tiny circle within it. Shade between the circle and the oval, forming the pupil. Then, use a “U” shaped line and a straight line to form the mouth. Draw a curved line through the mouth and shade above it, indicating the tongue.
7. Draw curved, vertical lines along the eraser and the point of the pencil.
8. Draw a “V” shaped line on each side of the pencil to form the arms. At the bottom of each arm, enclose the irregular shape of the hands.
9. Decorate your pencil by drawing straight, diagonal lines across it
Color you pencil.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​​Dad's Trophy' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ Trophy
The Complete Trophy Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​Begin by drawing a flattened, horizontal oval. This will become the opening of the trophy’s cup.
2. ​​​​Draw a large, “U” shaped line connecting the sides of the oval. This forms the body of the cup.
3.​ Draw the base of the cup. Extend two short, curved lines beneath the cup, and connect them using a longer curved line. Repeat this process – from the existing portion of the base, extend two more short lines, and connect them using a longer curved line.
4. ​​​​Draw the handles of the cup. On each side of the cup, use a long, curved line to enclose an inverted teardrop shape. Within this shape, use another curved line to enclose a narrow, irregular shape, forming the opening of the handle.
5.​​ ​​​​​Decorate the cup with a ring around the top. Draw a curved line parallel to the top of the cup, both on the inside and the outside.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​Draw the rectangular base of the trophy. Around the base of the cup, draw a trapezoid, or slanted rectangle. Beneath this shape, draw a large rectangle to form the front of the trophy. Extend two curved lines from the sides of the rectangle, and connect these with a straight line. Finally, draw a long, narrow rectangle at the bottom of the image.
7. ​​​Use straight lines to draw a five pointed star on the front of the cup. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8.​​​ ​​​Use straight lines to sketch a hollow number “1” in the center of the star.
9.​​ ​​​Within the rectangular front of the trophy base, draw another, slightly smaller rectangle. This forms the plaque on which words are written. Then, on the plaque, write the words “WORLD’S BEST DAD.”
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​Color your trophy. First place trophies are generally made of gold, but some may be silver. The base may be brown if it is made of wood
Watch 'How to Draw a Cute Popsicle' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Cute Popsicle
The Complete Cute Popsicle Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two straight lines, vertical in orientation and parallel to one another. These lines form the sides of the popsicle.
2. Connect the vertical lines at the bottom. Use a straight line, but curve it at each end so that the popsicle’s corners are rounded.
3. Draw a curved line like a quarter of a circle upward from one side of the popsicle. Then, use a series of “U” shaped lines of different sizes to connect the curve to the other side of the popsicle. This forms the top of the popsicle, as well as the teeth marks where a bite was taken out of it.
4. Draw a wavy curved line from the bite to the opposite side of the popsicle. This indicates melted popsicle dripping down the sides.
5. Draw a pair of straight, vertical, parallel lines descending from the bottom of the popsicle. Connect them at the bottom using a curved line. This forms the popsicle stick.
6. Draw curved and spiral lines across the popsicle stick. This gives it a wooden texture.
7. Draw two circles in the middle of the popsicle to form the eyes. Draw a tiny circle inside each one, and shade around it. Then, use two short curved lines connected at sharp points to form a curved shape above each eye, indicating the eyebrows.
8. Draw two circles, one on each side of the face and slightly overlapping each eye. These indicate the cute blushing cheeks. Draw a “U” shaped line to form the smiling mouth.
9. Add detail and texture to your popsicle by drawing straight vertical lines on its sides, as well as curved lines within the drippings.
Color your popsicle. Popsicles often come in bright colors that correspond to their flavor. Red popsicles often taste like fruit punch, orange-like citrus fruit, and yellow like lemons. What is your favorite flavor?
Are you hungry for more? Check out our objects drawing guides to find more fast food, or our plant drawing guides for flavorful fruits.
Watch 'How to Draw a Diamond' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Diamond
The Complete Diamond Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, horizontal line. This will form the top of the diamond.
2. Draw a longer horizontal line, below and parallel to the first. This line forms the cut of the diamond.
3. Connect the lines using two straight lines, enclosing the shape of a trapezoid. Extend two straight lines downward from the ends of the lower line, enclosing a large triangle. You have now outlined the shape of the diamond.
4. Diamonds sparkle in the light because of the way they are intricately cut. Indicate the cuts, or facets, on the top portion of the diamond. Enclose small triangles using a series of short, straight lines.
5. Continue forming the facets of the diamond, this time on the lower portion. Extend two long, straight lines from the horizontal line to the bottom tip of the diamond, dividing it into three triangle shapes.
6. Add more facet detail to the top portion of the diamond. Draw a zigzag line using a series of short, straight lines. Essentially, you will be enclosing additional small triangles, offset from and overlapping the lines of the first.
7. Add more faceted detail to the lower portion of the diamond. In each facet, extend two lines from the horizontal line to the side lines of the facet. Each set of lines will divide the facet into two triangles and a rhombus.
8. In each of the lower facets, draw a straight line from the upper tip of the rhombus to the lower tip.
9. Give your diamond some sparkle. Near the top of the diamond, enclose an irregular starburst shape using several short, curved lines. Erase guide lines as necessary.
10. Color your diamond. In our example, the diamond is shaded blue, but clear diamonds can reflect all the colors of the rainbow. In nature, diamonds have been known to appear yellow, brown, white, black, green, pink, purple, orange, or red.
Watch 'How to Draw a Dollar Bill' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Dollar Bill
The Complete Dollar Bill Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rectangle. This outlines the shape of the bill.
2. Draw two more rectangles inside the bill, each one smaller than the last. This outlines the patterns on the front of the bill.
3. How much is this bill worth? It is a 100 dollar bill. Draw the number “100” in outlined numbers in five places on the bill. Two “100”s go between the inner rectangles, at the top corners; one overlaps the inner rectangle at the bottom corner; and two are within the inner rectangle. Erase guide lines as necessary.
4. Draw two sets of curved parallel lines within the inner rectangle. These lines should resemble the punctuation called parentheses, “( )”.
5. Begin to draw the face on the bill. The American 100 dollar bill features the likeness of Benjamin Franklin, a scientist and politician who helped found America. Use curved lines to outline his face, chin, and neck.
6. Continue to sketch the portrait of Benjamin Franklin. Use curved lines to indicate his hair and the collar of his garment.
7. Add details to the portrait. Use curved lines to indicate the nose, eyebrows, and mouth. Sketch in the eyes using rounded shapes and curved lines.
8. Add more features to the bill. To the left of the portrait, draw three circles within one another, each smaller than the last. Enclose three narrow rectangular shapes in the top corner of the bill.
9. Write the words “THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA” above the number “100” on the right side of the bill.
Color your 100 dollar bill. American money is typically light and dark green.
Would you like to design money for your own imaginary country? Use this tutorial as a template, then check out our character drawing guides and create a currency that is all your own.
Watch 'How to Draw a Diamond Ring' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Diamond Ring
The Complete Diamond Ring Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This outlines the outer edge of the ring’s band.
2. Draw another circle within the first. This outlines the inner edge of the ring’s band.
3. Draw a slightly curved line extending upward from one side of the ring. Then, draw another line extending upward on the opposite diagonal. This forms the shoulders of the ring.
4. Draw a curved line across the inside of the top of the band. This is called the ring’s bridge.
5. Erase guide lines from the shoulders and bridge of the ring.
6. Draw a small oval near, but not connected to, each of the ring’s uppermost lines. From the sides of each oval, extend two long curved lines. Allow the lines to meet at a sharp point. Notice how the pointed shapes nearly meet in the middle, forming a “U” shape. These are the prongs that will hold the diamond. Add texture to the prongs using curved lines.
7. Draw two straight lines overlapping the prongs. Notice that the diagonal lines meet each other at a sharp point. At the top of each line, draw a short line on the opposite diagonal. Then, connect these lines using a curved line. This diamond, the center stone, together with the prongs forms the head of the ring. It is also known as the bezel. Connect the shoulders to the diamond as needed.
8. Erase guide lines from the prongs so that they appear to be located in front of the diamond. Then, draw a large upside-down triangle on the bottom half of the diamond. Connect its corners to the sides of the diamond. Then, draw two short lines upward from the corners. Connect these by using a curved line to enclose a pointed oval shape.
9. Enclose curved triangular shapes with rounded points on the shoulders of the ring. Then, draw a small circle beneath each triangle. These openings are known as galleries. Finally, draw curved lines along the interior edge of the band or shank. These are known as hallmarks.
Color your ring. Most rings are made of gold or silver.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a Dress' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​​ a Dress
The Complete Dress Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by draw a “V” shape to form the neck of the dress. Then, extend one of the lines past the bottom of the “V.” At the top of the “V,” draw two short, nearly straight lines extending outward. From each of these, draw a short, curved line, downward. Overlap another, longer curved line. This outlines the bodice, or top portion, of the dress.
2. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the bodice. From each end of the line, extend a short line downward. Enclose a rectangular shape using a fourth line. This forms the dress’s waist or belt.
3. From each side of the belt, extend a long, curved line downward. Connect the lines using a curved, wavy line, enclosing the skirt of the dress.
4. Draw curved lines upwards from the bottom of the skirt, indicating folds in the fabric. Draw short, curved lines just above the belt.
5. Detail the belt with a bow. Draw an oval in the middle of the belt to form the knot. extend two lines from each side of the knot, enclosing the ribbon. Indicate creases in the ribbon by extending short lines outward from the bow.
6. Extend two sets of long, curved lines downward from the knot, lengthening the ribbon. Enclose the end of each ribbon using a short, straight line, and indicate creases by placing short lines near the knot.
7. ​​​​Draw lace or ruffles at the top of each sleeve. Do this using a curved, wavy line.
8. Extend a set of curved lines from each side of the dress, forming the sleeves. Enclose the end of each sleeve using a curved line. Draw lines of various lengths upon each sleeve to indicate folds in the fabric.
9. ​​Draw lace or ruffles lining the neck, using wavy lines. Erase guide lines as necessary.
10. Color your dress. Cloth can be dyed in any color imaginable, so be creative!Is your dress fit for a princess? Give her a castle. You can even add fairy tale creatures such as a dragon or a unicorn. Or, check out our people drawing guides and learn to craft your own character.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Donut' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Donut
The Complete Donut Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a large oval. This shape outlines the top of the donut.
2. Draw a small oval in the center of the large oval. This indicates the hole in the middle of the donut. Then, draw a curved line through the center of the small oval, parallel to the top of the oval. This gives the donut dimension, revealing the back side of the donut’s center.
3. From one side of the oval, draw a long, curved line. Loop it beneath the oval, remaining parallel with it, and attach it to the oval on the opposite side. This outlines the front side of the donut.
4. Draw a long, wavy line, beginning on one side of the large oval and following its perimeter. Notice how the waves of the line have different heights and depths, and how it at times crosses into the oval. This indicates the edge of the donut’s dripping frosting.
5. Erase the guide lines from the top of the donut.
6. Draw a wavy line in the center of the donut, between the parallel lines. This indicates frosting dripping into the center of the donut.
7. Erase guide lines from the center of the donut.
8. Draw a curved line just above the frosting’s edge, giving dimension to the donut. Then, begin to draw sprinkles. For each sprinkle, enclose an irregular bean shape, narrow and rounded on each end.
9. Draw additional sprinkles, narrow and rounded, until the entire top of the donut is covered with the small, sugary candies.
10. Color your donut, its frosting, and its sprinkles. What flavor will your frosting be? Will it be dark brown chocolate, white vanilla, lemony yellow, pink strawberry, or something else?
Do you have a sweet tooth? If you’d like to try drawing additional yummy desserts, check out our guides for drawing cupcakes, cakes, cookies, pies, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Football Helmet' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Football Helmet
The Complete Football helmet Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to outline the shape of the helmet.
2. Use a long, curved line to give the football helmet a more detailed shape. Notice how the line winds in and out of the circle to form the shape.
3. Erase the guide lines left by the original circle.
4. Enclose a rounded rectangle at the front of the helmet, just above the opening. Then, use two curved lines to craft a stripe running across the top and front of the helmet.
5. Use curved lines of various lengths to begin crafting the face mask. Use one set of lines to enclose a portion of the mask above the opening. Notice the rounded area where the mask connects to the helmet, and the wires of the face mask extending towards the opening.
6. Use pairs of long, curved lines to craft the wires of the face mask. Continue the lines that ended at the edge of the helmet. Note that an additional line extends from the point where the face mask connects to the helmet.
7. Continue to enclose wires of the face mask using pairs of long, curved lines. Note the rectangular shape that some of the wires form, and how others appear to end as they curve away from the viewer.
8. Continue to draw the face mask on the far side of the helmet. Again, use a pair of parallel lines to craft each wire.
9. Use curved lines to sketch the far side of the helmet. Add additional detail to the areas where the face mask connects to the helmet – a crossed circle at the side and two small rectangles at the top of the face mask. Erase guide lines as necessary.
10. Color your football helmet. What are the official colors of your favorite team?
Check out our people drawing guides and object drawing guides for more football fun, including a football player and a football.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Funny Taco' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Funny Taco
The Complete Funny Taco Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a half circle, open to the bottom. This outlines the basic shape of the taco.
2. Draw a curved line from one side of the taco to the other. However, do not attach the line on one side. Instead, allow it to extend beyond the half circle. Then, connect the two lines at a sharp point using a short, curved line. This completes the outline of the front of the taco shell.
3. Draw another long, curved line in the shape of a half circle. Extend the line from the top of the taco to the point on the front corner. This outlines the far side of the taco shell.
4. Draw toppings, such as lettuce, emerging from the top of the taco. For each, use one or two curved lines to enclose either a rounded or pointed shape.
5. Draw toppings such as lettuce and meat on the other side of the taco. Again, use curved lines to enclose both round and pointed shapes.
6. Finish filling the taco with toppings such as meat and lettuce. Use curved lines to make rounded shapes, and pairs of curved lines to enclose pointed shapes.
7. Erase guide lines from the toppings as necessary. Draw a line to form a central vein on some of the lettuce leaves.
8. Give your taco a silly face. Begin by drawing two small circles to form eyes. Draw an even smaller oval within each eye, and shade between the two shapes. Above each eye, use two short, curved lines to enclose a curved shape, pointed on one end. This indicates the eyebrows.
9. Draw a wide, “U” shaped line to form the taco’s smiling mouth. Detail the mouth by placing a short, curved line at each end. Then, use an additional “U” shaped line to enclose the protruding tongue. Detail the tongue by drawing a line down its center.
10. Color your taco. Want to draw some more funny-faced foods? Check out our other drawing guides, such as the corn cob. Or, use our mouth and eyes drawing guides to create your own. When you draw, its okay to play with your food.
Watch 'How to Draw a Football' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Football
The Complete Football Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line, like the top of a circle. This will form the top of the football.
2. Draw a long, curved line to form a mirror image of the first line, fully enclosing the shape of the football. The lines should connect in gentle points at each end.
3. Draw a pair of parallel lines, curved and roughly vertical, near one end of the football. These form the football’s characteristic stripe.
4. Draw another set of parallel, curved lines on the opposite end of the football, forming the other stripe.
5. Draw two roughly horizontal curved lines in the middle of the football, near the top. Then connect the lines on each end using short curved lines. This shape lays the basis for the football’s characteristic stitching.
6. Draw another curved line down the center of the shape drawn in the previous step. Then, use short curved lines to enclose curved shapes crossing the original shape. Erase guide lines as necessary. These shapes represent the football’s stitching.
7. Draw additional curved shapes, adding more stitches. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. Draw a few more curved shapes, filling the base with stitches from end to end. Erase guide lines as needed.
9. Draw two curved lines running the length of the football. Notice how the lines do not cross over the stripes or stitching.
10. Color your football. American footballs are typically brown in color with white or tan stripes and stitching.
Keep your head in the game! Use our easy drawing guides to learn to draw other sports-related items, such as a basketball or a soccer ball.
Watch 'How to Draw a Gingerbread House' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Gingerbread House
The Complete Gingerbread House Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two slanted lines, forming a triangle shape that is open at the bottom. Notice that one line is longer than the other. This forms the eaves of the house’s roof.
2. Draw a slightly wavy line extending from the point of the roof. This line forms the top of the roof. Then, draw a diagonal line downward, forming the opposite eave of the roof.
3. Connect the two eaves with a wavy line, fully enclosing the side of the roof. Then, draw another wavy line. Start at the rear eave; follow the edge of the roof, then up one side of the front eave and down the other side. This is icing that holds the gingerbread house together. Doesn’t it also resemble ice and snow clinging to the roof?
4. Draw another wavy line. Begin at the front peak of the eaves, and draw the line just below the top of the roof. Double it back upon itself, traveling just above the roof and down one eave. This creates more adhesive icing.
5. Erase the roof lines from within the icing.
6. Draw a straight line down from each of the lower corners of the roof. Connect these lines using additional straight lines, enclosing the cube-like shape of the house.
7. Draw shapes that are rounded on top and flat on the bottom to indicate the windows and doors. For each of the upper window panes, draw a triangular shape that is curved on one side, and use rounded rectangles for the lower panes. The window panes should be arranged so that a “t” or cross shape is formed in the middle.
8. Decorate your house with gumdrop candies. Draw rounded shapes along the side of the house, around the door, and on the roof, erasing guide lines as necessary.
9. Connect the candies on the roof using curved, wavy lines. Draw more gumdrops across the top of the roof, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw a circle above the door, crossed by wavy lines, to form a peppermint window.
Color your gingerbread house.
Watch 'How to Draw a Golf Bag' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Golf Bag
The Complete Golf Club Bag Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines, parallel to one another. This outlines the sides of the golf bag.
2. Connect the two lines at the bottom using a curved line. Then, use another curved line to enclose a rounded rectangle shape, outlining the bottom of the golf bag.
3. Enclose the top of the golf bag using an oval. Then, draw a smaller oval inside the first, forming the opening of the bag. Below the oval, band the bag with two narrowly spaced parallel lines, enclosing a curved shape.
4. Draw the handle of the golf bag, erasing guide lines as necessary. Just below the opening, use “C” shaped lines to enclose a curved shape.
5. Draw the golf bag’s shoulder strap. First, use two long curved lines and two short curved lines to enclose a roughly rectangular shape, erasing guide lines as necessary. From each of the top corners of the strap, extend a curved line. Curve the line back upon itself and allow it to meet the rectangular shape once more.
6. Detail the strap of the golf bag using a long curved line.
7. Draw the first golf club. Extend two parallel lines upwards from the opening’s inner oval, erasing guide lines as necessary. From the longer of the two lines, extend a curved line to form an oval shape, attaching the two lines. Detail the head of the golf club with a short curved line.
8. Draw the second golf club. Extend a pair of parallel lines from the inner oval of the opening, erasing guide lines as necessary. Connect the two lines by drawing an oval shape, and detail the club with a short curved line.
9. Draw a third golf club. Extend two parallel lines from inside the golf bag, erasing guide lines as necessary. Enclose the lines by drawing an oval shape, and detail it with a short curved line.
Color your golf bag and clubs.
Feeling sporty? Check out our other sports equipment drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Guitar' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Guitar
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
First, draw two circles for the body of your guitar; one smaller than the other and a little bit overlapping.
Draw a long line through the middle of the circles and draw the sound hole as two concentric circles where the straight line meets with the larger circle.
Add three lines perpendicular to the long line; one in the middle of the big circle, and the others close to the top and bottom of the guitar.
Next we will draw the basic shapes for the guitar neck and head. Draw a long, narrow rectangle for the neck, and a shorter, a slightly wider, rectangle for the head.
We will start shaping the guitar body now. Draw a line cutting through the upper circle above the sound hole and other two lines close to the sides of the large circle.
Draw two more straight lines close to the top of the guitar body.
Erase the circle lines outside the short lines we made in the previous two steps.
Next, draw slightly curving lines where you just erased the circle lines. These new lines should be “flatter” than the old ones. Also, draw small circles for the tuning posts in the head and a small rectangle for the bridge.
Erase the extra lines inside. The guitar outlines are now ready.
Let’s add some details. Add a small rectangle that ends in small ovals for tuning pegs. Also, make six tiny circles for bridge pins.
Draw six guitar strings from the bridge pins to the tuning posts.
Finally, add the frets, pick guard, and round up the head of the guitar. Your drawing is ready for coloring.
Color your guitar.
Watch 'How to Draw a Hammer and Saw' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Hammer and Saw
The Complete Hammer and Saw Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two roughly parallel curved lines. Connect the lines at the bottom using a short curved line. This forms the wooden handle of the hammer.
2. Next, begin the head of the hammer. Enclose the top of the handle with a short straight line. Then, extend a curved line from each side of the handle. One line should curve immediately away from the handle. The other should enclose a shape before curving to meet the other line at a sharp point. This shape is called the cheek, and the pointed portion is the claw. Use another curved line, following the curve of the claw, to form the other prong of the claw.
3. Extend two curved lines from the cheek of the hammer. This is called the neck. Connect these lines using a straight line, then extend short curved lines from each end. Connect these using another curved line to form the bell or poll of the hammer. Detail the hammer’s handle, cheek, neck, and bell using curved lines of various lengths.
4. Now, you will begin to draw the saw. First, outline the handle. Use five or more lines to enclose an irregular shape. Detail the top edge by drawing a straight line parallel to the outline.
5. Detail the handle. First, draw an irregular rounded shape. Detail one side of this shape using a curved line. Along the bottom of the handle, draw three small circles. These are the screws or bolts that connect the blade to the handle.
6. Draw a long, straight line extending from the side of the handle. At the end of this line, draw a shorter straight line at a right angle. These lines form the back and toe of the saw blade.
7. Draw a narrow zigzag line from the handle of the saw to the handle of the hammer. This portion of the saw blade is known as the heel, and the serrated edge is called teeth.
8. Draw a zigzag line from the hammer to the toe of the saw, completing the teeth.
9. Detail the saw blade with diagonal straight lines and a small circle at the toe.
Color your new tools.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Hot Dog' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Hot Dog
The Complete Hot Dog Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, irregular shape, resembling a banana. This will form the upper portion of the hot dog bun.
2. Draw another elongated, irregular shape overlapping the bun. Notice the way the sides and ends are slightly flattened. This forms the hot dog itself.
3. Erase the guide lines from the hot dog.
4. Draw another irregular banana shape beneath the hot dog, forming the other half of the bun. Use short, curved lines to connect the bun to the hot dog on each end. This gives the bun a three dimensional shape.
5. Draw a long, curved line across the upper portion of the bun, following the shape of the hot dog. This gives depth to the inside of the hot dog bun.
6. Top the hot dog just the way you like. Begin by drawing a long, wavy curved line down the middle of the hot dog. This will form the mustard or ketchup that makes a hotdog taste great.
7. Draw a second wavy line down the center of the hot dog, parallel to the first. This encloses the condiment.
8. Draw a line across the bottom portion of the hot dog bun, nearest the hot dog. This adds depth to the bread.
9. Draw sesame seeds on the hot dog bun. For each seed, enclose a narrow oval shape, gently pointed at each end.
10. Color your hot dog. Hot dogs range in color from red to brown. Don’t forget to shade the bright yellow mustard or red ketchup.
Would you like to draw more fun foods? Check out our burrito, hamburger, and French Fry drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Haunted House' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Haunted House
The Complete Haunted House Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing a curved line. This forms the hill that the house sits upon.
2. ​​Use a series of short, curved, connected lines to outline the bottom of the hill, enclosing its shape. The curves give the hill a grassy appearance.
3. ​​Draw the lower portions of the house. For each, begin with a pair of straight, parallel lines. Extend a short, straight line out from each side, then enclose the triangular roof using another pair of lines.
4. ​​Draw the main house. Extend parallel lines upward from the smaller portions of the house, and enclose the shape with a straight line. Draw the sides of the roof using curved lines, and enclose the shape using another straight line.
5. ​​Draw the highest story of the house. Extend a set of parallel lines upward from the roof. Draw short, straight lines extending outwards, and enclose the figure using two additional lines to form a peaked roof.
6. ​​​Draw the windows. Draw four squares amid the center of the house, and place a perpendicular set of lines through each. Do the same in each of the smaller portions of the house, creating arched windows by substituting a curved line for the top of each square.
7. ​​​Draw the moon peeking out from behind the house by enclosing a circular shape.
8. ​Draw a scary tree emerging from behind the house. Use jagged lines to sketch the trunk, and allow the branches to end in sharp points.
9. ​​Draw a bat silhouetted against the moon. To draw the bat, enclose a figure using a jagged line. Note the jagged peaks at the bottom of the wings and the two points that form the bat’s ears.
10. ​​​Color your haunted house. Why not place it within a quiet neighborhood? Our cartoon house drawing tutorial can help. If you need any more scary animals, check out our bat, spider, and spider web drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw a Hoodie' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Hoodie
The Complete Hoodie Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an upside-down teardrop shape, with its pointed end facing downward and its curved side up. This forms the opening of the hood.
2. Draw a curved line encircling the top of the teardrop shape. This forms the top of the hood.
3. Draw a long curved line extending downward from one side of the hood. Curve the line into a horizontal position, then double it back upon itself. This forms one of the hoodie’s sleeves.
4. Extend a long curved line from the opposite side of the hood. At the bottom, bring the line into a horizontal position, then double it back upon itself. This forms the second sleeve, a mirror image of the first.
5. Enclose a rounded rectangular shape at the bottom of each sleeve. These are the cuffs of the sleeves.
6. Extend a curved line downward from one sleeve. Bring it into a horizontal position when it reaches the cuffs, and then draw it upward to connect with the opposite sleeve. This line forms the sides and bottom of the hoodie.
7. Use a long curved line to enclose a rounded shape at the bottom of the hoodie. Then, texture this hem and the cuffs by banding them with short lines.
8. Enclose an irregular shape in the middle of the hoodie. Notice how it is wider at the bottom than at the top. Draw curved lines within the shape, parallel to the outline. This forms the hoodie’s pocket.
9. Shade two small ovals beneath the point of the hood’s opening. Then, draw a curved line downward from each oval. Shade another small oval at the end of each line, forming the hood’s drawstrings.
Color your hoodie. Hoodies come in a variety of colors. They can be bright for enhanced visibility, like the one in our example. Or, they can be shaded to match your favorite school, sports team, or outfit!
You can find more clothing drawing guides among our collection of man-made objects. Or, create a character to wear your hoodie using our people drawing guides. With pencil and paper in hand, the possibilities are endless!
Watch 'How to Draw a Jacket' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Jacket
The Complete Jacket Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two loosely parallel, vertical curved lines. These outline the front opening of the jacket.
2. Beginning at the bottom of the jacket opening, extend a long line running loosely parallel to the jacket opening. As it reaches the top of the opening, allow the line to curve outward, forming a point as it curves back in. Repeat this three times, forming a larger triangular protrusion each time. This forms the collar lapel, collar notch, and front upper collar of the jacket. Then, run the line over the jacket opening. Form points as the line descends, creating a near-mirror image of the first side. Attach the line to the bottom of the jacket opening.
3. Draw a pair of curved lines spanning the top of the jacket opening, and at the bottom of the opening. Within the upper set of lines, enclose a small rectangle to form the jacket’s tag.
4. Draw a set of short, curved, parallel lines descending from each side of the jacket opening. Draw a circle at the end of each, followed by a smaller circle. These represent the zipper or other closures to secure the jacket tightly.
5. Draw a long line to one side of the jacket. At its top, form a “V” using a short line to detail the underarm. At the bottom, connect the line to the jacket opening using a pair of curved lines.
6. Use long curved lines to outline the sleeve. Draw a curved rectangle at the bottom of the sleeve to indicate the cuff, and detail the elbow with short curved lines, indicating creases in the fabric.
7. Draw the opposite side of the jacket in a similar manner to the first, with a “V” at the top and connected at the bottom using two curved lines. Draw curved lines along the jacket opening to add texture and dimension.
8. Use long curved lines to draw the remaining sleeve. Draw a rectangular cuff at the bottom, and creasing at the elbow using short lines.
9. Add the finishing touches to your jacket. Draw two narrow, horizontal rectangles on each side. Draw a rounded triangle at the end of the upper rectangles to indicate the zipper, and use curved lines to enclose a pocket beneath the lower rectangles.
Color your jacket. Will it be a cool black leather jacket, or will it match your school colors or favorite sports team? the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Kite' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Kite
The Complete Kite Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a four sided shape, like a diagonally slanted diamond. Notice that the top two lines are shorter than the bottom two lines. This forms the kite itself.
2. Draw a pair of perpendicular lines crossing over one another within the kite. Each straight line should travel from one corner of the shape to the opposite corner. These represent the narrow, lightweight wooden crossbars that support the kite.
3. Draw a small circle at three of the kite’s four corners. On the lowest corner, attach a small, curved triangle. These shapes represent the means by which the kite is attached to the crossbars.
4. From the bottom corner of the kite, draw a long, curving ling. This line is the string of the kite’s tail.
5. Along the string, draw two small triangles, connected to each other and to the string at one point. This forms the shape of a bow tied to the kite’s tail.
6. Draw another pair of triangles, touch points along the kite’s string. This forms another bow.
7. Draw a third set of triangles along the kit’s tail, connected at the points to form a bow.
8. Draw the fourth and final bow of the kite’s tail, again using two small triangles connected by their points.
9. Draw a long, curved line extending from the center of the crossbars. This is the kite’s string.
10. Color your kite. Kites are often brightly colored so that they can be seen even high up in the sky.
Fill the sky with other high flying drawings including clouds, an airplane, birds, fireworks, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Lantern' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Lantern
The Complete Lantern Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an irregular shape. Draw two horizontal straight lines, and connect them using curved lines. The resulting shape should resemble a teardrop with a flat, rather than pointed, top. This forms the glass globe of the lantern.
2. Draw a very narrow shape with rounded ends directly above the globe. To do so, draw a horizontal line parallel to the top of the globe and connect it using short curved lines. Draw a rectangle above this to form the base of the lantern’s ventilator.
3. Enclose a narrow oval just above the rectangle. Above this, draw a rectangle with a curved top. Band this shape with a curved line. Draw a small square atop the rounded rectangle, and a compressed bell shape above the square. Then, draw curved lines from the bell to the rectangle. Band this with diagonal lines.
4. Next, begin the lantern base. Beneath the globe, enclose a flattened oval. Draw an irregular rounded shape beneath this, and band it with a curved line.
5. Extend two curved lines from the rounded shape. Connect them using a long curved line. Then, draw short lines extending from the tips of this shape. Connect these lines with another curved line, extending the lantern base.
6. Draw lines descending from each side of the lantern base. Connect them with a long curved line, and band the shape with another curved line. This completes the lantern base.
7. Draw a long curved line extending from the lantern base to the ventilator on each side. Then, draw a shorter line parallel to the first on each side. These are referred to as the boil. Texture each boil with curved lines of different lengths.
8. Draw the handle. Extend a long curved line from the boil, up and over the top of the lantern. Connect it to the boil on the opposite side. Notice the small bulge at the top of the handle. Then, draw another line parallel to the first to enclose the handle.
9. It is time to light the fire. Enclose a curved shape at the bottom of the globe, and band it with a curved line. This is the burner. Draw a teardrop shape above this to indicate the flame. Detail both the flame and the edges of the globe using curved lines. Finally, extend a small rectangle from the back of the lantern, and draw a star shape at the end. Erase guide lines as necessary. This is the control knob used to manage the length of the wick, and therefore the height of the flame.
Color you lantern.
Watch 'How to Draw a Fighter Jet' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Jet Plane
The Complete Jet Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two diagonally slanted curved lines, roughly parallel to one another. This begins the body, or fuselage, of the jet.
2. Connect the lines drawn in the previous step by extending two long curved lines and allowing them to meet in a point. This forms the nose of the jet.
3. Next, draw the upper portion of the tail, also called the vertical stabilizer. Extend two lines on a vertical slant from the back of the jet. Connect them at the top and bottom using straight lines.
4. Use a series of straight lines to enclose the rear of the fuselage. Then, enclose a rounded shape using a curved line. Band the shape with short lines. This forms the nozzle, or rear portion, of the jet engine.
5. Next, draw the front portion of the wings, erasing guide lines as necessary. Extend two straight lines from each side of the jet, and connect them using a short straight line. Notice that the winglets are roughly triangular in shape.
6. Draw the wings. Use three straight lines to enclose the wing on each side of the jet. Each wing should resemble a triangle with one of its corners removed.
7. Draw the winglets at the tips of the wings. Extend a straight line from the wing, and another parallel to it. Connect the lines at each end.
8. Contour the body of the jet by drawing long curved lines down the middle.
9. Draw the windows of the cockpit. Enclose a number of irregular shapes.
Color your jet. Many fighter jets such as this one are silver or grey in color, but they also come in a multitude of shades. Stealth jets such as the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird may be solid black; the Blue Angels, the U.S. Navy’s flight demonstration squadron, pilot blue and yellow jets; and historically, many pilots have painted various pictures on the sides of their aircraft.
Our selection of Object Drawing Guides will put you on the fast track to transportation drawing fun. There, you’ll find vehicles such as planes and trains, boats and ships, cars, trucks, buses, and even a UFO!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Lighthouse' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a Lighthouse
The Complete Light House Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a flattened oval. This will form the foundation of the lighthouse, the stone on which it sits.
2. Draw a wavy, curved line descending from each side of the oval. These form the sides of the stone. Then, draw a long, wavy line beneath the stone, and other wavy lines beside and beneath it. These form the ocean waves around the lighthouse.
3. Draw two straight lines ascending from the oval, slanting closer together at the top. These lines form the sides of the lighthouse itself.
4. Draw horizontal curved lines along the length of the lighthouse. These form the building’s characteristic stripes.
5. Within the bottom stripe, draw a small rectangular shape with an arched, or curved, top. This forms the door to the lighthouse. On various stripes above the door, draw similar, but smaller, shapes to indicate the windows.
6. ​​​​Draw a curved line, like a semicircle, at the top of the lighthouse. This will form a balcony or porch about the top of the lighthouse. Enclose the crescent shape with a curved line, then draw another curved line parallel to the first. Connect the lines on the ends using short straight lines, and place additional short lines between the curved lines. This forms the railing around the porch. Finally, draw another curved line to indicate the opposite side of the railing.
7. Draw a rectangular shape with curved corners atop the lighthouse. Above it, draw a narrow, curved rectangle. Finish the floor of the porch by connecting its edges to this new structure using curved lines.
8. Draw another set of rectangular shapes on top of the first. This forms the lantern room from which the light shines.
9. Draw a small, curved square on the face of the lantern room, indicating a window. Draw a couple of diagonal lines across it to show a shine on the glass. Complete the roof using a curved line, and decorate it with a small circle on top.
10. Color your lighthouse. Two classic styles are red and white or black and white stripes.
​Would you like to sharpen your drawing skills and expand your picture? Try out our other maritime drawing tutorials, including a boat, a whale, and an island.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Mardi Gras Mask' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ Mask
The Complete Mardi Gras Mask Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​​​Begin by drawing the cut-out eyes of the mask. For each eye, use two curved lines to form a teardrop shape that is gently pointed on each end.
2. ​Begin to sketch the shape of the mask. Use two long, curved lines to form a larger teardrop shape around one of the eyes. Do not enclose the shape between the eyes.
3.​ ​​Draw the other side of the mask, forming a mirror image of the first. Again, use two long, curved lines to enclose a teardrop shape around the eye. The two teardrops should connect between the eyes.
4. ​​​​​​Draw decorative flourishes on the top of the mask. Above each teardrop shape, use a series of curved lines of different lengths to form sharp points.
5.​​ ​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines beneath the points drawn in the last step, leaving a clean outline of the mask.
6.​ Add decorative details to the mask. Draw a long, “U” shaped line surrounding one eye. At one tip of the “U,” draw a small circle. On the other side, draw a curved line parallel to the “U,” connecting at the end using a circular shape.
7. ​Repeat this process to form a mirror image on the opposite side of the mask. Draw a long “U” shaped line with a circle at one end. On the other end, draw a curved parallel line, enclosing a circular shape on the end.
8.​​​ ​Using curved lines, enclose curved shapes along the “U,” above each eye.
9.​​ ​​Give your mask some glitter and bling. Draw small circles along the sides of the mask and above the eyes. Then, draw small diamond shapes beneath the eyes.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​Color your mask. Remember, the colors representing Mardi Gras are generally purple, yellow, and green.
Watch 'How to Draw a Menorah' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Menorah
The Complete Menorah Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a set of straight, vertical parallel lines. At the upper and lower ends of each line, draw a short line extending at a diagonal angle. Then, connect the lines on each end using a short straight line. This forms the central support of the menorah.
2. Draw two sets of parallel “U” shaped lines crossing the central support. Notice that the lower set of lines is much larger than the upper set. Draw diagonal lines extending from the top of each set of lines. Then, connect each pair of lines using a short line, forming the four candle holders.
3. Draw an additional pair of parallel “U” shaped lines. Extend diagonal lines from the tops, and connect them using short lines. This forms two additional candle holders.
4. Draw another large pair of “U” shaped lines. Extend diagonal lines from the ends, and connect them using short lines.
5. Erase guide lines from the central support of the menorah.
6. Draw a small rectangle at the base of the menorah. Beneath this, draw a longer but equally narrow rectangle. Then, draw a final longer rectangle beneath the previous. This forms the menorah’s stand.
7. Begin to draw candles atop the menorah. For each candle, enclose a vertical rectangle using three straight lines.
8. Continue to draw rectangular candles until each of the candle holders is filled.
9. Draw a short line on top of each candle to indicate the wick. On top of each wick, use curved lines to enclose a teardrop shape, forming the flame. Use curved lines to enclose irregular shapes at the top of each candle, within each rectangle, indicating melted wax.
Color your menorah. Menorahs are traditionally golden in color and topped with white candles.
Do you need more items for your celebration? Check out our objects drawing guides, where you’ll find holiday decor, fireworks, and even enough food for a feast!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ Microphone' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ Microphone
The Complete Microphone Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a simple circle. This outlines the microphone’s windscreen, also called a grill or head, the part you speak into.
2. ​​​Begin to outline the housing, or body, of the microphone by extending a straight, diagonal line from the windscreen.
3. ​​​Draw another straight line extending from the head of the microphone. This line should angle toward the previous line slightly.
4. ​Connect the two lines using a curved line, completely enclosing the housing.
5.​​ ​​Draw a curved line across the microphone body, just below the head. Draw another curved line at the end of the body, enclosing a rounded shape.
6.​ ​​​​​At the bottom of the microphone, enclose a small rounded rectangle. This forms the input of the microphone’s cord. Beneath this, draw a long, curved line to indicate the cord.
7. ​​​​Draw the on/off switch on the body of the microphone. Begin by drawing a small, narrow rectangle. Then, band the button with two short parallel lines, separating the “on” and “off” positions.
8.​​​ ​​​Draw a pair of curved, parallel lines across the head of the microphone.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​Detail the head of the microphone by sketching the grill pattern upon it. To do so, first draw many curved, parallel lines traveling in a single direction. Then, cross these with additional curved lines perpendicular to the first. The resulting grill should resemble a curved checkerboard pattern.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​Color your microphone. Most are black or silver in color, but may be brightly colored as well. Some windscreens may be bright orange, yellow, green or blue, and some female singers enjoy using sparkling, bright pink microphones
Don’t let the music stop now! Draw like a rock star using our acoustic or electric guitar drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Milk Carton' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Milk Carton
The Complete Milk Carton Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a vertical rectangle. Notice how its top and bottom lines are positioned diagonally; this will help you to craft the three dimensional carton.
2. Draw a diagonal line from the bottom corner of the carton.
3. Using two straight lines, enclose a second rectangle. Notice that it is placed on an opposite diagonal to the first.
4. Use two straight lines to enclose a triangle on top of the second rectangle.
5. Use two straight lines to enclose a parallelogram – a slanted rectangle – between the first rectangle and the triangle. This completes the top of the carton.
6. Draw a straight line above the carton, parallel to the parallelogram. This will form the top of the carton’s closure, called a gable top.
7. Connect the line to the top of the parallelogram using two short, straight lines.
8. Draw a straight, diagonal line within the triangle, giving the carton a three dimensional detail. Then, draw a straight line near the bottom of each rectangular side, parallel to the bottom of each shape. Finally, draw eyes on the front of the carton. For each eye, sketch a small circle. Then, draw a small oval within the circle. Shade between the two shapes.
9. Draw a thick, curved line above each eye to indicate the eyebrow. For the mouth, begin with a “U” shaped line. Connect the ends of the “U” using a straight line. Draw a curved line within the mouth to indicate the tongue, and shade around it.
10. Color your milk carton. Hint: you can make it a juice carton instead by drawing a fun fruit, such as an orange, on the side. If you’re hungry for more food drawings with funny faces, check out our cute corn on the cob, tomato, and taco drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Monster Truck' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Monster Truck
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a parallelogram – A rectangle in which the top line is shorter than the bottom line. This will form the truck’s windshield.
From the top corners and one of the bottom corners, extend straight, parallel lines. This three dimensional form outlines the cab of the truck.
Enclose the cab of the truck and the truck bed using straight lines.
Extend a straight line downward from the end of the truck bed. From this line, draw a short, straight line parallel with the top of the truck bed, then another straight line extending downward. This outlines the back of the truck. To outline the bottom of the truck frame, complete with the wheel wells, draw a short, straight line, a curved line, and a straight line, followed by another curved line and straight line.
Draw the truck’s front bumper. Begin by drawing two long, parallel curved lines. Connect the lines using short, slightly curved lines. Add detail to the corner of the bumper using short curved lines.
Outline the front of the truck and the hood. Draw lines upward from the corners of the bumper. Connect them using a straight line. Then, draw lines from the top of this rectangle to the corners of the windshield. Finally, draw a line from the windshield to the bottom of the truck.
Draw a smaller parallelogram within the windshield, and a smaller rectangle within the passenger window.
Draw wavy lines across the windows. These lines indicate reflections on the window glass.
Draw two large ovals beneath the truck’s wheel wells.
Draw curved lines from the top of the ovals to the truck body, and to the bottom of the ovals. This encloses the surface of the tires.
Draw another tire on the opposite side of the truck, using an oval and a curved line.
Draw a small circle within a small circle in the middle of each tire. This forms the hub caps.
Draw a chevron pattern across the surface of each tire, giving the tires tread. To draw this pattern, extend two parallel lines diagonally from the side of the tire to its center. Connect parallel lines from the other side, on the opposite diagonal. Repeat this pattern across the surface of the tire.
Draw mirrors on each side of the truck using small rectangles.
Draw two small rectangles on the front of the truck to indicate headlights. Draw a larger rectangle between the headlights to form the grill.
Detail the truck. Draw vertical lines across the grill, and draw a curved line across each headlight. Draw several narrow, diagonal parallelograms on the side of the truck.
Draw the axle between the front wheels. Begin with a circle. Extend parallel lines from the circle to the wheel. As needed, connect the lines using a short, curved line. Draw a curved line through the circle.
Draw a circle within a circle around the axle, where it connects to the far wheel. Using curved lines, detail the underside of the truck below the bumper, and within each wheel well.
Draw a straight line down the side of the truck and across the truck bed.
Color your monster truck.
Watch 'How to Draw a Necklace' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Necklace
The Complete Necklace Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the necklace’s beaded chain. Draw a series of small, connected, irregular rounded shapes. The chain itself should resemble the letter “C.” Each of these circular shapes represents a bead or pearl.
2. Continue to draw additional small, irregular, rounded shapes until the necklace itself almost forms a complete loop.
3. Connect the two ends of the necklace by drawing a pendant. Enclose a circular shape, but use a wavy line to give the pendant decorative scalloped edges.
4. Draw a circle in the middle of the pendant.
5. Draw another, slightly larger, circle around the original circle in the middle of the pendant.
6. Draw short, straight lines from the double circle within the pendant to the valleys of the pendant’s scalloped edge. This helps to define the scalloped texture and adds depth to the drawing.
7. Draw another, smaller circle in the center of the pendant. Then, draw straight lines from this circle to the next largest circle. Notice that the lines form small triangle shapes. This forms the precious stone or gemstone at the center of the pendant, complete with the proper cut to make it sparkle.
8. Draw small circles within many of the pearls or beads, beginning at the pendant and working your way up. These circles indicate a shine or sparkle and help give the pearls a rounded appearance. Do something similar to the gemstone by drawing two rounded shapes of different sizes within its central circle. Finally, draw a short curved line parallel to each scalloped edge of the pendant, adding further texture.
9. Erase a few of the pearls at the top or back of the necklace. Connect the ends of the necklace using a short line; notice the jagged lobe to one side of the line. Then, enclose the middle of the line in an oval. This indicates the clasp used to fasten the necklace, to take it on and off.
Color your necklace. Pearls and gemstones come in many different colors. Pearls can be white, pink, blue, or even black. Gems may be green emeralds, red rubies, purple amethyst, blue sapphires, clear diamonds, or many other colors.
Who is to wear this lovely necklace? Check out our people drawing guides, where you will find a princess and more.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​a​ Nutcracker' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a ​Nutcracker
The Complete Nut Cracker Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​Begin enclosing a shape like the letter “D” using two curved lines. The rounded portion of the “D” should face downward. This outlines the nutcracker’s face.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Enclose a small, rounded rectangle beneath the face, forming the collar of the suit. Then, use several curved lines to enclose the body. The body should have four sides.
3. ​Using a curved line, enclose a flattened, rounded shape beneath the body. This forms the nutcracker’s belt. Below this shape, draw two slanted, rounded rectangles extending at diagonal angles. These are the tails of the coat.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw a squat, fat triangle with curved sides and rounded corners on each shoulder. These are military decorations. Then, draw the arms using curved lines. Enclose a rectangular cuff at the end of each arm, and finish the hand using a short, curved line.
5.​ ​​Next, draw the legs. You may use a continuous curved line, or several. The shape of the legs should roughly resemble an upside down letter “U.”
6. ​​Below the legs, draw the boots. Use a long, curved line to enclose each irregular shape. Notice how the line creases to indicate the heel of the boot.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. ​​​​​Enclose a curved shape at the top of the head using two to three curved lines. This forms the brim of the hat. Above the brim, draw a rounded square shape. Draw short lines from the brim of the hat to the sides of the face, indicating the hairline. Draw two sets of parallel lines across the chest, crossing at opposite diagonal angles. This forms part of the military decoration.
9. ​Detail the the nutcracker’s face and garments. Draw small circles for the eyes, and shade the pupils within. Draw curved lines between the eyes to indicate the bridge of the nose, and above to form the eyebrows. Use a “U” shaped line for the nose, and beneath it use several curved lines to form a pointy mustache. On the belt, draw a square within a square to form the buckle. Draw several sets of parallel lines across the chest, and end each set with small circles.
10.​ ​​​​Color you nutcracker. Many nutcrackers are depicted wearing red, but they can come in a variety of colors.
Watch 'How to Draw a Piñata' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Piñata
The Complete Piñata Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the donkey’s ears. Use a jagged, zigzag line to outline a half-circle shape. Fill the open top of the semicircle with two rounded triangular shapes, each crafted from jagged, zigzag lines. Then, draw small lines and “V” shaped lines within the figure to give it the texture of the paper decorations.
2. Next, draw the donkey’s face. Extend a short zigzag line from the base of the ears. At its end, use two curved lines to enclose a curved shape, forming the donkey’s bridle. Enclose a curved shape beyond the bridle using a zigzag line, and band the shape with another zigzag line. This forms the donkey’s snout. Use two more zigzag lines to enclose shapes on the opposite side of the bridle, forming the upper and lower portions of the head.
3. Draw a large circle with a smaller circle inside it, erasing guide lines as necessary, to form the eye. Indicate nostrils with two ovals on the snout, and texture the face with short zigzag lines.
4. Outline the chest and stomach using zigzag lines and short, overlapping, curved lines. Texture the chest with short zigzag lines.
5. Draw the leg, erasing guide lines as necessary. Extend a pair of zigzag lines downward from the body. Enclose the end using a curved line, and texture the leg with short zigzag lines.
6. Extend another zigzag line from the body and connect it to the existing leg using a curved line. This forms the second leg. Texture it with short zigzag lines.
7. Draw the donkey’s saddle. Sketch the back using straight and curved lines, and outline the saddle with two “U” shaped lines. Enclose a rounded rectangle shape to form the strap.
8. Use long zigzag lines to outline the donkey’s rear leg. Enclose the hoof with a curved line, and detail the leg with zigzag lines.
9. Draw the remaining leg using curved and zigzag lines. Draw the tail using curved lines that meet at points.
Color your piñata.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a Pirate Ship' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a Pirate Ship
The Complete Pirate Ship Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line. This will outline the ship’s deck.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​Draw a wavy curved line beneath the original line to indicate water. Then, extend a curved line from each end of the ship’s deck, downward to the water. You have now enclosed the ship’s hull.
3. Draw curved lines across the hull, following the curve of the deck. These lines add the texture of wood planks to the ship.
4. Next, draw the railing at the stern, or back, of the ship. Draw pairs of short, straight lines upward from the ship’s deck. Then, connect the tops of the lines using a longer curved line.
5. Draw the bowsprit – a spar, or long piece of wood that is used to support the sails – extending from the bow, or front, of the ship. Extend two curved lines from the bow, and allow them to meet in a rounded point. Then, draw railing along the bow. Extend pairs of short, straight lines upward from the deck, and connect them at the top using a curved line.
6. Draw the mast, a long wooden beam that holds the sails. Draw two long, straight, parallel lines extending upwards from the ship. Connect the lines at the top using a circular shape.
7. Draw the sails. First, at the bottom of the mast, draw a large square shape using curved lines. This forms the main sail. Above the main sail, draw another curved square. This forms the topsail. From each corner of the sails, draw a long, curved line extending to the deck of the ship. These represent rigging, the ropes that support and move the sails.
8. Erase guide lines from the sails.
9. At the top of the mast, draw a pennant, or small flag. Draw the pennant by using curved lines to form a rectangular shape. Then, mark your ship as a pirate ship by drawing a skull and crossbones on the main sail. Enclose an irregular shape, larger at the top. Draw circles for the eyes and nostrils. Use a rectangle with lines across it for the mouth and teeth. Extend pairs of lines from the skull in four directions, and enclose the ends using two curved lines each to form bones.
10. Color your pirate ship.
Are you in the mood for more seafaring fun? Complete your picture using our handy drawing guides for an anchor, a boat, a shark, and a whale. You can even learn to draw waves, oceans, islands, and beaches
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Pizza' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​a Pizza
The Complete Pizza Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing a triangle. The triangle’s longest side should be the bottom. This triangle forms the outline of your pizza slice.
2. ​​​​​​​​From one of the triangle’s bottom corners, extend a curved line. Allow the line to straighten and follow the side of the triangle on a parallel path. Then, curve the line inwards to meet the opposite bottom corner. This adds depth and three dimensions to the pizza slice.
3. ​Along the top edge of the pizza slice, draw a wavy curved line from one corner to the other. This forms the pizza’s crust.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Next, you will soften and detail the lines of the pizza. On the sides opposite the three dimensional curve, extend a wavy, curvy line from one corner to the other. Do this for both sides.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines left by the original triangle. You now have a clean outline of a slice of pizza.
6.​ ​Draw a wavy line across the remaining straight line of the original triangle. This line will texture the pizza’s edge to resemble melty cheese.
7. ​​Erase the guide line from the cheese. You now have a slice of cheese pizza.
8.​​​ ​Draw circles on the pizza to make it a pepperoni pizza.
9.​​ ​​​​​​Want a supreme pizza instead? Draw small rectangles and curved shapes, pointed on each end, to indicate toppings such as sliced onions, chopped bell pepper, and sausage. Then, draw mushrooms. To draw a mushroom, sketch a rounded shape but do not fully enclose it. This forms the mushroom’s cap. To form the stem, draw another, smaller, curved shape, filling the gap to enclose the figure.
10. ​​Color your pizza.
Would you like to draw other fun, delicious party foods? Check out our drawing tutorials for a cake, a slice of pie, and more!

Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing an Airplane
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
We begin the airplane drawing with a curvy line for the stubby nose of the plane.
Continue with another curving line for the cockpit.
Behind the cockpit, draw a long straight line.
In the underside, draw another long line. This line is curving slightly. Also note that the back of the plane is narrower than the front.
Draw a straight, tilted line for the front of the vertical stabilizer.
Complete the vertical stabilizer by drawing straight lines that connect its top with the underside of the fuselage.
Sketch the rudder with a couple of short, straight lines.
Emphasize the nose cone with a curvy line.
Draw a tilted straight line in the middle where the wing is placed.
Add a few straight lines to sketch the wing. The wing is slightly narrower at its tip than at the base.
Draw another wing to the other side. This wing is partially hidden by the plane fuselage.
Add flaps to the wings.
Draw a rectangular shape for the cockpit window. The top and bottom of the rectangle curve slightly following the curve of the fuselage.
Add small squares for the passenger windows. Make the windows on the right side smaller to add some perspective to the airplane drawing.
Add a small circle for the landing gear.
Draw another circle for the other landing gear. Make it smaller as it’s further away.
Add two elongated ovals for the engines.
Draw the engines to the other side. Only one engine is visible behind the body of the plane.
Add a line on the side of the fuselage to make it look a little more interesting.
Erase any extra lines.
Color your airplane drawing. It looks great, doesn’t it?
Watch 'How to Draw a Playground' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Playground
The Complete Playground Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two pairs of narrowly spaced, upside down “V” shaped lines. Connect them on the ends using short lines. Then, connect the points of the “V” with a set of parallel lines. This outlines the frame of the swingset.
2. Draw a rectangle between the legs of the swingset. Draw another layer of lines on two sides, connected at the corners, to give this swing seat a three-dimensional appearance. On each side of the swing, draw an upside down “V” to indicate the supporting chains or ropes. Then, connect it to the top of the swingset. Don’t forget the small ovals to indicate where the ropes attach to the bar.
3. In front of the swingset, draw a diagonal rectangle. This will become the seesaw. Use parallel lines to give it a three-dimensional appearance.
4. Detail the seesaw, erasing lines as necessary. Draw upside down “U” shaped lines, connected at the bottom by a straight line, to form the base of the seesaw. Draw a small circle in the middle of the base, and use a curved line to give it a three-dimensional appearance. Then, draw a “T” shape extending upwards from each side of the seesaw, forming the handles.
5. Draw a pair of parallel, upside down “V” shaped lines. Connect them at the ends. This forms the support of the slide.
6. Draw four parallel lines, connected at each end. This forms the slide itself. Add a few hatch marks to texture the bend of the slide.
7. Draw another pair of upside down “V” shaped lines passing behind the slide, supporting the opposite side.
8. Draw pairs of horizontal, parallel lines between complimentary sides of the “V” shaped lines. These are the rungs of the slide’s ladder.
9. Set the scene with grass, shrubbery, and trees. Use short, curved lines that meet in jagged points to form tufts of grass. Outline bushes and the tops of trees with cloudlike formations of curved, “U” shaped lines. Use additional curved lines to form the trunks of the trees and to outline the entire playground.
10. Color your playground. Whether it is rusty or new, that is up to you. Don’t forget to color the green grass or cushiony mulch or sawdust beneath the playground equipment.
Check out our selection of people drawing guides in order to fill your playground with happy faces.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Pot of Gold' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​ ​Pot of Gold
The Complete Pot of Gold Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a flat, horizontal oval. This will form the opening of the pot.
2. Beneath the oval, draw a curved line from one side to the other, enclosing the pot’s brim.
3. Draw a circle, allowing its tops to overlap the brim.
4. Draw a curved line on each side of the pot, connecting the circular base to the brim.
5. Erase the guide lines from the pot.
6. Draw a wavy, curved line across the top of the pot. This indicates the gold coins inside. Then, draw small half circles and curved lines, indicating the individual coins.
7. Erase guide lines from the gold. Draw more circles, half circles, and curved lines.
8. Draw a handle on the pot. Do so by drawing two long, “U” shaped curved lines, parallel and very close together. The lines should end at the pot’s rim. Enclose the end of the lines using a small circle. Erase guide lines as necessary.
9. Draw a straight line, the horizon line, passing behind the pot. This line is the boundary between the ground and sky. Then, draw a series of parallel curved lines extending from the gold in the pot. This forms a rainbow. If you wish to include all the color bands of a real rainbow, by sure to use eight curved lines.
10. Color your rainbow and pot of gold. What colors go inside a rainbow? From the top, they are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.
If you liked this drawing guide, be sure to check out our rainbow drawing tutorial.
Watch 'How to Draw a Robot' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Robot
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an elongated oval. Split the oval into three equal sized parts by drawing two horizontal lines across it.
Draw a rectangle below the lower horizontal line.
Draw two narrow rectangles for the robot’s legs.
Add two semi-circles for the feet in the bottom of the drawing. Draw a long, straight line that cuts the large oval in half. Draw a rectangle below the upper horizontal line that we drew in step 1.
Draw a small rectangle connecting the rectangles we drew in steps 2 and 4.
Next, we will outline the robot’s arms, but first erase the lower 2/3rds of the original oval. Draw two narrow rectangles on both sides of the body followed by a small circle. Add two more narrow rectangles that angle away from the circle.
Add two C-shapes for hands at the end of each arm.
Draw a small rectangle for the mouth.
Erase the vertical center line. Draw a long and narrow rectangle inside the lower body.
The drawing is almost ready. Add two circles for the eyes and draw a colored circle inside each eye for pupils. Draw two curving lines that end with small circles on top of the robot’s head.
Finally, trace your robot drawing with heavier lines and color it. Your cute cartoon robot is ready!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a School' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a School
The Complete School Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, narrow rectangle. Use two long, parallel horizontal lines and two short vertical lines. This shape forms the foundation of the building.
2. Enclose another rectangle atop the narrow rectangle. Draw a long, straight line parallel to the rectangle, and connect the shapes using two straight, vertical lines. This forms the front wall of the building.
3. Enclose a trapezoid just above the top of the wall. Then, connect the lower corners of the trapezoid to the upper corners of the wall. This forms the roof of the school.
4. Draw a narrow, horizontal rectangle overlapping the eaves of the roof. This will form the bottom of the overhang. From the overhang, extend four sets of straight, vertical, parallel lines downward. The middle sets of lines should extend to the bottom of the school, and the outer sets to just beyond its foundation. Then, enclose each set of lines by drawing a small rectangle. These lines form the columns that support the overhang.
5. Erase the guide lines from the overhang.
6. Enclose a rectangle atop the overhang, with a smaller rectangle inside it. Then, enclose a large triangle above the rectangles, and draw a smaller triangle inside it. This completes the roof of the overhang. Erase guide lines as necessary.
7. Enclose a rectangle extending upward from the foundation, between the columns. Then, draw two narrowly spaced, vertical, parallel lines down the middle of the rectangle. This forms the doors of the school. Draw a narrow, horizontal rectangle on top of the door. Next, draw the school’s many windows. For each window, use three lines to enclose a square shape, leaving the top open. Enclose the top using a curved line, creating an arched window. Draw a double set of perpendicular lines through each window.
8. Draw a clock within the triangular top of the overhang. Begin by drawing a circle, with a “V” shaped line within it to indicate the clock’s hands. Then, write the word “SCHOOL” across the front of the overhang.
9. Detail the roof with horizontal straight lines. Draw a horizontal line just above the roof, and connect it to the corners of the roof using short lines. Draw horizontal lines extending from each side of the school to indicate the horizon, and a pair of divergent diagonal lines to create a path leading to the school’s front door.
10. Color your school. In our example, we’ve made it yellow with a brown roof. You could make your school red brick, white painted wood, or any other color you’d like.
Watch 'How to Draw a Scooter' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Scooter
The Complete Scooter Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a pair of straight, parallel lines slanted diagonally. These will form the handlebars of the scooter.
2. Draw another set of straight, parallel lines, positioned perpendicular to the first. This is the bar or steering column. The handlebars should now resemble the letter “T.”
3. Draw the handlebar grips on the ends of the handlebars. For the near grip, draw a small circle just beyond the handlebar. From it, draw straight, parallel lines just wider than those of the handlebar. Connect them using a curved line, forming a cylinder shape. Draw the remaining grip in a similar way, with the partial circle encircling the handlebar. Then, draw a short, curved line across the handlebar.
4. Next, draw the lower steering column. Draw a partial circle around the bar, with a short curved line across the bar. Then, draw parallel lines slightly wider than the bar itself. Connect them at the bottom with a short curved line.
5. Erase guide lines from the handlebars.
6. Draw the scooter’s deck. Draw parallel lines at a diagonal angle from the bar, and enclose the end with a curved line. This is called the headtube. Use three straight lines to enclose a partial rectangle around the end of the headtube. Draw straight lines parallel to the front and bottom of the deck, and connect them at the corners to give the deck a three-dimensional appearance.
7. At the end of the deck, draw two curved lines. Let them connect in a gentle curve, and connect them at the bottom using a short line. This forms the scooter’s rear fender brake.
8. Enclose a rounded rectangle on top of the deck, and an irregular “J” shape, called the fork, just beneath the bar.
9. Complete to scooter by adding wheels. For each wheel, draw three circles, one within the other.
Color your scooter.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Sandwich' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Sandwich
The Complete Sandwich Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a diamond shape with rounded corners. This will form the top of the slice of bread.
2. Draw a short, curved line descending from each of the shape’s near corners. Connect these using straight lines. You now have a three-dimensional slice of bread.
3. Draw lettuce on the sandwich. Beneath the bread, enclose irregular pointed forms to indicate the lettuce leaves. Connect short, curved lines in sharp points.
4. Begin to draw tomatoes and cheese. For each tomato slice, enclose a semicircle within a semicircle. Use two lines meeting in a rounded point to form the corner of the cheese. Draw a complimentary, slightly smaller shape within the first.
5. Continue to draw tomatoes on the other side of the sandwich, again using curved lines to form semicircles.
6. Draw a corner of cheese by connecting two lines in a triangular shape. Add depth by tracing another line along one side of the cheese. Use short, curved lines to enclose additional leaves of lettuce.
7. Add meat to your sandwich. Use long, curved lines to outline the edge of the meat. Draw another curved line parallel to the first.
8. Continue to outline the shape of the lunchmeat, using parallel curved lines.
9. Extend short lines downward from each corner of the sandwich, connecting them using long curved lines. This completes the bottom slice of bread.
10. Color your sandwich.
Watch 'How to Draw a Scarf' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Scarf
The Complete Scarf Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. This outlines the inner side of the scarf. Then, draw two additional curved lines that overlap. These lines outline the outside edge of the scarf.
2. Draw another curved line, following the curve of the inner line but not connected to it. Then, continue the outer line, but do not connect this curved line to it, either. Finally, draw another curved line overlapping this second outer line.
3. Use a long curved line to connect each of the top outer lines. Use another curved line to connect the inner lines, meeting each line about midway. You now have an outline of the coiled scarf.
4. From the inner outline of the scarf, draw a long curved line descending downward. Curve the line back upon itself until it passes the inner fold of the scarf on the opposite side. Use several shorter, overlapping curved lines to connect this end of the line with the outline of the scarf. Erase guide lines as necessary. This shape forms the end of the scarf, hanging from where it is tied.
5. From the point that the end of the scarf disappears behind the rest of the scarf, extend a long curved line downward. Connect it to the end of the scarf, forming the opposite end.
6. Erase any remaining guide lines from the scarf.
7. Stripe the ends of the scarf. Use pairs of narrowly spaced, parallel curved lines to form each stripe.
8. Stripe the remainder of the scarf. Use pairs of curved parallel lines for each stripe. Then, draw lines extending outward from under the ends of the scarf, indicating creasing where the scarf is tied.
9. Draw fringe hanging from the ends of the scarf. For each strand of fringe, extend a curved line from the scarf, and double it sharply back upon itself. Draw the fringes closely spaced until the ends of the scarf are fully covered.
Color your scarf. Will it match your favorite outfit? Your favorite sports team? Your school colors? Or will it make a bold statement? The choice is yours.
Who will wear your scarf? Check out our people drawing guides, where you’ll find some of your favorite characters as well as step-by-guides on how to create your own.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​​​Scroll' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​​​Scroll
The Complete Scroll Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing two curved lines. Notice that the lines are closer together in the center, farther apart at the ends. This outlines the basic shape of the scroll.
2. ​Enclose one end of the scroll using an oval to connect the curved lines.
3. ​Enclose a curved rectangular shape within the body of the scroll. This forms the end of the rolled paper. Finish enclosing the scroll using a short, curved line.
4. ​​​​​​Draw an irregular, rounded shape on the top of the scroll. This forms the knot of the bow. Then, enclose a rounded triangular shape extending from the knot, overlapping the scroll. This represents one lobe of the bow.
5.​​ ​​​​Erase guide lines from the bow.
6.​ ​​On the opposite side of the knot, enclose a teardrop shape by extending a curved line and doubling it back upon itself. Then, enclose the irregular shape of the ribbon around it.
7. ​Extend a pair of curved lines from the knot and across the scroll, allowing them to diverge as they lengthen. Connect them at the end using a “V” shaped line, forming the ribbon. Extend another, similar pair of lines from behind the first ribbon. Enclose it with a “V” shaped line as well.
8.​​​ ​​Erase the guide lines from the ribbons.
9.​​ ​​Enclose a curved triangle within the oval at the end of the scroll, indicating the end of the paper that is curled inside. Detail the bow by extending short, curved lines from the knot.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​Color your scroll.
Watch 'How to Draw a Ship' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Ship
The Complete Ship Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.Begin by drawing two curved lines, one long and one short. These lines will form the bow and stern, or front and back, of the ship.
2. Connect the tops of the bow and stern lines using a long, curved line.
3. Extend a short, curved line from the top of the bow, and connect it to the bottom of the bow using another curved line. This indicates the far side of the ship.
4. Draw water beneath the ship. Do so using a long, wavy line with pointed crests on the waves.
5. Detail the sides of the ship. Draw a long, curved line from bow to stern, parallel to the top of the ship.
6. Draw the structures on board the ship. Do so using stacked narrow rectangles that are curved on one end.
7. Using small circles, draw portholes, or windows, near the top of the ship. Add additional detail to the deck side structures by drawing a small vertical rectangle. Extend a short, curved line from the top of the rectangle to the side of the ship.
8. Draw the smokestacks. For each, draw two parallel lines extending upwards from the ship. Connect the lines at the top using a curved line. Notice that the smokestacks differ in height, and that they appear to overlap one another.
9. Draw a curved line at the top of each smokestack. Enclose a cloud of smoke above the central stack using a series of short, curved lines. Enclose a smaller cloud above the first in a similar fashion, and texture the original cloud using short, curved lines. Draw additional water using pointed, wavy lines.
10. Color your ship and the watery deep. Why not include some other features in your drawing, using our other handy drawing tutorials? Put some fluffy clouds in the sky, and place animals such as a polar bear on an ice flow, a gentle whale, a playful dolphin, or a toothy shark in the sea.
Watch 'How to Draw a Shirt' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Shjrt
The Complete Shirt Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curvy triangle, leaving one point unconnected. Then, draw a short line from the bottom side of the triangle. This forms one side of the shirt’s collar.
2. Next, draw a second wavy triangle, again leaving one corner unconnected. This should be a near-mirror image of the first side, forming the opposite side of the collar.
3. Connect the open ends of one triangle to the open ends of the other triangle using curved lines. This completes the outline of the collar. Then, draw a pair of lines descending from the front of the collar. Connect the lines at the bottom using a short line. This part of the shirt is called the placket.
4. Draw a line down the center of the placket to indicate the opening. Draw small circles beside the line to indicate the buttons.
5. Extend a long curved line from one side of the collar, outlining the body of the shirt. Notice how the line is squared where the shoulder will soon meet the sleeve.
6. Using curved lines, outline the other side of the shirt body, forming a mirror image of the first.
7. Connect the lines using a curved line, forming the shirt’s bottom hem. Draw diagonal curved lines near the bottom of the shirt, indicating ripples in the fabric.
8. Draw the sleeves. Enclose each sleeve using a curved line. Start at the shoulder, and square off the corners of each sleeve.
9. Draw a curved line parallel to the end of each sleeve, forming the cuff.
Color your polo shirt. Make it match your favorite outfit, or color it to represent your favorite sports team. Be creative, because the choice is yours.
Who will wear the shirt you’ve just drawn? Check out our people drawing guides, where you can learn to design your own cool characters. You’ll also find more stylish clothing items among our object drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Skirt' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Skirt
The Complete Skirt Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a slightly curved horizontal rectangle. This will form the waistband of the skirt.
2. Draw a curved line descending from each of the bottom corners of the rectangle. This outlines the sides of the skirt.
3. Connect the lines from the previous using a long, wavy, curved line. Notice how the line doubles back upon itself slightly, imitating the folds and ruffles of the hanging fabric. This completes the outline of the upper portion of the skirt.
4. Draw lines across the skirt, some connected to the waistband and others originating from the bottom of the material. These lines indicate folds and creases in the fabric.
5. Draw curved lines descending from each side of the skirt, inset slightly from the edge. Then, connect these lines using a long, wavy line that doubles back upon itself slightly. This outlines the next segment of the skirt.
6. From each of the curves in the bottom of the skirt, draw lines ascending upwards. These indicate creases or folds in the fabric.
7. Draw a third segment of the skirt. Extend lines downward from each side, slightly inset from the edge. Then connect them using a wavy line.
8. Draw a short line ascending from each of the waves at the bottom of the skirt. This indicates folds in the fabric.
9. Decorate the waistband. Draw a small vertical rectangle with curved corners on one side of the waistband. This is the knot of the bow. On each side of it, enclose an irregular shape; each shape should resemble a rounded triangle with one corner hidden behind the knot. Erase guide lines as necessary. Draw a curved line on each side of the knot to indicate folds in the fabric. Finally, draw a set of parallel lines down the center of the waistband, indicating the ribbon.
Color your skirt. Make it match your favorite outfit, or shade it in any colors you can imagine.
Who will wear this fancy skirt? Check out our people drawing guides and learn to design your own fun characters.

Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Snowman
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a small circle. Make sure it is not too high up on the page, as you will need some space for the snowman’s hat.
Next, make a cross inside the circle; it will help you to draw the snowman’s eyes, nose, and mouth in the right spots.
Draw a small rectangle at top of the circle. Then draw two slightly curvy lines above it. The line on the right should be a little longer. Connect the two lines with another curving line to make the hat.
Add two small circles for the eyes and a cone shape for the nose. The nose starts from the middle and points slightly downwards. Draw the mouth with a slightly angled smile. Adjust the triangle at the bottom of the hat by curving its lines slightly downwards.
Erase the extra lines in the head and hat.
Draw two overlapping ovals under the snowman’s head. The one at the bottom should be bigger.
Draw three small rectangles for the scarf. The one directly under the head is horizontal, the other two are slightly angled.
Add some details; short lines for the tassels and a row of tiny circles for buttons.
Erase the extra lines from the scarf and sketch arms for your snowman. The arms should be a little angled to look more like tree branches that end in small forks.
Color your snowman. You can use a dark color for the back of the drawing and maybe add some snowflakes, too.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Soda Can' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Soda Can
The Complete Soda Can Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a small, flattened, horizontal oval. This will form the top of the soda can.
2. Draw a curved line downward from one side of the oval. Follow the curve of the oval, and connect the line to the oval on the opposite side. This forms the rim at the top of the can.
3. Draw a curved line descending from each side of the can’s rim to form the sides of the can. Notice how each line curves inward at the top, becoming straight at is continues to descend.
4. Connect the sides of the can at the bottom, using a curved line.
5. Use a curved line to enclose a narrow, rounded shape at the bottom of the can. This forms the ridge at the can’s lower edge.
6. Draw two wavy lines diagonally across the can.
7. Draw a curved line across the top of the can, indicating the rim of the can on the far side.
8. Use a curved line to enclose an irregular shape on top of the can. This is the pop top used to open the can. Inside the pop top, draw an oval within an oval.
9. Draw a circle in the middle of the can’s wavy line. Then, give the can a three dimensional appearance by sketching curved lines along the side and across the bottom of the can.
10. Color your soda. Then, make it meal with our other food themed drawing guides, such as a hamburger, a burrito, or a slice of pizza.
Watch 'How to Draw a Stack of Money' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Stack of Money
The Complete Stack of Money Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rectangle. It should have rounded corners and be placed on a diagonal slant. This outlines the top dollar bill in the stack of money.
2. Extend a short line from just below two of the rectangle’s corners. Use two straight lines to connect the short lines, outlining another bill, its lines parallel to the first. Repeat this to form a third bill beneath the first two – extend two short lines, then connect them using longer straight lines.
3. Extend short lines from just below the corners of the bills, and connect them using long straight lines. This forms the fourth bill.
4. Repeat this process – two short lines connected by two longer lines, parallel to the original bills – two more times for a total of six bills.
5. Next, draw the currency strap, also called the currency band or bill strap. Draw a pair of parallel lines across the top of the bills. Then, continue the lines down the side of the bills. This paper band keeps the money together and in place.
6. Erase guide lines from the currency strap. Notice that the line remains where the strap bends.
7. Enclose a rectangle within the face of the top bill.
8. Within the rectangle, enclose another shape. Draw four straight lines parallel to the rectangle, as if they too were forming a rectangle; however, don’t connect the corners. Then, connect each line with a short, curved line to form a fancy pattern.
9. Draw a money sign, “$,” like a letter “S” with a line through it, on the top of the currency strap.
Color your stack of money. In the United States, paper money is in various shades of green, but in other countries, money may come in many colors. These include pink, orange, blue, and red.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sugar Skull' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sugar Skull
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a large circle.
From each side of the circle, draw a curved line, extending down.
Connect these lines using a long, curved line.
Erase the guide line formed by the bottom of the circle.
Draw two circles within the figure. These will form the eyes.
In the middle of the figure, draw a shape like and upside down heart. Draw a smaller upside down heart within the first.
Draw a smaller circle within each eye circle. Within the smaller circle, draw a swirling, curved line.
Draw a zigzag pattern in a circle around each eye. Each zigzag pattern will consist of thirty to forty short, straight lines, forming about twenty small triangle shapes around the eye.
Draw a decorative pattern on the top of the sugar skull. To begin, draw a short, straight line. Connect another short, straight line at a right angle, and extend another line from this one. Add a larger, curved line to this point. Repeat the process to form a mirror image on the other side. Connect the two sets of lines with a short, straight line.
Within the shape just formed, draw a smaller version of the same set of lines.
Draw a flower like form within this shape. Draw a small circle and place a spiraling curved line within it. Using a wavy line, outline the circle. This will resemble simple petals.
Draw a curved line above each eye. These lines give the appearance of furrowed brows and define the shape of the skull.
Above each brow line, draw a teardrop shape.
Draw a small heart between the teardrop shapes.
Draw a larger teardrop shape above the end of each brow line.
Draw a curved horizontal line in the bottom portion of the sugar skull. This line will resemble a smiling mouth.
Draw teeth above the mouth line. Use eight curved, upside down “U” shaped lines to form the teeth.
Draw seven “U” shaped lines beneath the mouth line to mirror the teeth above.
Add more detail to the sugar skull. Draw a dot between each of the large teardrop shapes and the design at the top of the skull. Draw a heart shape on each side of the sugar skull, partially hidden by the skull’s edge. Draw a smaller heart within each, and shade the smaller heart. Beneath the mouth, draw two swirling shapes consisting of two curved lines. The shapes will resemble an apostrophe.
Shade the inner heart shape of the nose and the circles around the eyes.
Color the sugar skull. Traditionally, sugar skulls are decorated with an array of bright colors.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sweater' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Sweater
The Complete Sweater Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an irregular rounded shape. Then, draw a curved line across the top of the shape. This forms the neck or collar of the sweater.
2. Extend a long, curved line downward from the sweater’s neck. Double the line back upon itself, forming the shoulder and sleeve of the sweater.
3. Extend a long, curved line from the opposite side of the sweater’s neck. Double the line back on itself, forming the sleeve. This should be a mirror image of the opposite side of the sweater.
4. Draw a long curved line, beginning above the open end of the sleeve. Curl the line as if making a square with rounded corners, until it connects to and surpasses the opposite sleeve. This forms the torso of the sweater.
5. Extend a curved line from the bottom of the sweater. Allow it to form two rounded corners before connecting to the sweater on the opposite side. This forms the hem of the sweater.
6. Use a curved line to enclose a rounded cuff at the bottom of the sleeve.
7. Use a curved line to enclose a rounded shape at the bottom of the remaining sleeve, forming the cuff.
8. Texture each of the cuffs by banding them with curved lines.
9. Band the sweater’s neck with curved lines, and use two lines to draw a stripe across the chest. Detail the sweater’s folds using curved lines of various lengths around the neck and arms.
Color your sweater to match your favorite outfit.
Who will wear this nifty hand-drawn sweater? Check out our people drawing guides to create the perfect character.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sword' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Sword
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw a narrow rectangle diagonally on your paper.
Add a smaller rectangle to its right end.
Add another small rectangle.
Draw a V-shape at the tip of the sword and long line that runs down the middle of the blade. Add a curve to the cross guard and another one to the end of the hilt.
Draw small arcs in the ends of the cross guard and a tiny rectangle at the root of the hilt.
Draw another tiny rectangle in the cross guard and add some arcs to the hilt for decoration.
Sketch curving lines around the tiny rectangles in the cross guard.
Erase the ends of the tiny rectangles.
Erase the extra line at the underside of the cross guard. Draw curving lines on the top-side of the cross guard. Add curves to the hilt to give it more detail.
Erase the extra lines at the top side of the cross guard and from the tip of the blade. Your cool sword drawing is ready. That was easy, right?
Clean up and color your cartoon sword.

Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Teddy Bear
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start with two overlapping ovals. The one above is bigger. These two shapes will become the teddy bear’s face.
Add two smaller ovals for the ears.
Draw a large oval for the body.
On both sides of the body, add two long ovals for the arms.
At the bottom of the body, draw two ovals for the legs.
Erase all the extra lines.
Draw two circles for the eyes. Inside the eyes, draw two dark ovals with a white dot inside.
Add some details; the insides of the ears, forehead, muzzle, and tips of the arms and legs are going have a different color.
Add some color and your teddy bear drawing is ready.
Watch 'How to Draw a Tombstone' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Tombstone
The Complete Tombstone Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the rocks and dirt at the base of the tombstone. Draw many irregular rounded shapes overlapping one another. The shapes should be of different sizes – some large, some small. Texture the larger stones with curved lines.
2. Draw grass atop the rocks. Enclose the grass using a series of short curved lines that connect in jagged points. The connected series of lines should start at one side of the rocks and span to the opposite side.
3. Draw a set of parallel lines upward from the grass. This forms the side of the tombstone.
4. Draw another line extending upwards from the opposite side of the grass and rocks. This outlines the opposite side of the tombstone.
5. Connect the parallel lines at the top, forming a rectangle. From this rectangle and from the remaining line, extend a short straight line towards the center of the tombstone. Then, connect these using a curved line like a semicircle, enclosing the front of the tombstone. Draw another curved line from the rectangle to the top of the tombstone to give it a three-dimensional appearance.
6. Draw wavy lines across the side of the tombstone to add texture.
7. Outline the letters “RIP” across the front of the tombstone. These letters stand for “Rest in Peace.” This has been a common inscription since the 1700s.
8. Texture the front of the tombstone. Use branching curved lines and wavy “V” shaped lines to indicate cracks on the stone. Enclose small circles and irregular rounded shapes.
9. Draw additional gravestones in the background. Draw a curved line to indicate the ground; then, enclose roughly rectangular shapes overlapping one another. Texture them with wavy lines. Finally, enclose the shape of a cross, like a lowercase letter “t,” atop one of the rectangles. Draw additional lines parallel to its vertical lines to give it a three-dimensional appearance.
Color your graveyard scene. Check out our people drawing guides, where you’ll find ghoulish characters, or our animal drawing guides, where you can discover creepy creatures such as bats, scorpions, and spiders.
Watch 'How to Draw a Tractor' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Tractor
The Complete Tractor Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a slightly irregular four-sided shape. This will form the cab of the tractor, where the driver sits.
2. Draw the cab’s windows. Draw two more rectangular shapes within the original rectangle. One should be narrower than the other.
3. Enclose a very narrow rectangle on top of the cab of the tractor. This forms the cab’s roof.
4. Extend a line downward from the front of the cab. Then, extend a short straight line horizontally beneath the cab. From this point, extend a pair of parallel lines upward on a diagonal slant. From the tips of these lines, extend two more lines, less steeply slanted than the previous lines. End the lower line at the cab of the tractor; let the upper line enter the cab, and extend a horizontal line from it. Finally, extend a pair of lines on the opposite diagonal at the back of the cab, and connect them at the end. This forms the wheel well of the tractor.
5. Enclose three narrow rectangular shapes beneath the wheel well. Then, connect the bottom shape to the other side of the wheel well using a series of straight lines.
6. Extend two trapezoids – quadrilaterals with slanted sides – from the front of the cab; the lower trapezoid should be larger and upside down. Draw a small rounded triangle on the front of the tractor, and enclose an irregular shape beneath.
7. Draw a circle overlapping the front of the tractor, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw two smaller circles within it to for the tire, wheel, and hub cap.
8. Draw the rear tire, erasing guide lines as necessary. First, craft a circular shape from small straight lines connected in a serrated pattern. Then, draw a circle within a circle inside the tire to form the wheel and hubcap.
9. Draw a narrow vertical rectangle ascending from the front of the tractor, forming the exhaust pipe or smoke stack. Detail the tractor with narrowly spaced vertical lines and small circles. Draw a horizontal line beneath the tractor to indicate the ground.
Color your tractor. Green and red are the most common tractor colors.
You can get down on the farm with our drawing guides. Check out our animal drawing guides, where you’ll find cows, horses, chickens, pigs, goats, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a Top Hat' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Top Hat
The Complete Top Hat Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two slightly curved lines. Notice that one line is longer than the other, and that they are on a slightly diagonal slant toward each other. These lines form the sides of the crown of the hat.
2. Draw a large horizontal oval to connect the lines at the top. This forms the top of the hat’s crown.
3. Use a long curved line to connect the lines at the bottom. Notice the bulge on one side. This forms the bottom of the hat’s crown.
4. Draw a long curved line parallel to the bottom of the hat’s crown. This forms the hatband. Then, use three short lines to enclose a curved rectangular shape at the back of the hatband.
5. Begin to draw the brim of the hat using a curved line. Extend the line from the back of the hat’s crown, just above the hatband.
6. Continue to extend the curved line, following the curve of the hat’s crown. The brim of the hat is now three fourths complete.
7. Complete the brim of the hat, using a curved line to connect the existing line to the front of the hat’s crown.
8. Draw a long curved line just inside the brim of the hat, parallel to the existing line.
9. Texture the hat. Use curved lines of different lengths to texture the top of the crown and the front and back of the brim. Then, use cross hatching – lines set at perpendicular angles, like a tic tac toe board – on the side of the crown, the hatband, and the brim.
Color your top hat. Traditionally, many top hats, such as those placed on a snowman, are black in color. Brown is another popular color. Be creative! Color your hat to match any outfit or costume.
You’ll find more clothing drawing tutorials among our man made objects drawing guides. Or, create a character to wear your hat using our people drawing guides. With pencil and paper in hand, the possibilities are endless!
Watch 'How to Draw a Train' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Train
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval. This will be your starting point at the front of the engine.
Extend straight, parallel, horizontal lines from the top and bottom of the oval, forming a cylinder shape.
Enclose the cylinder using a curved line.
Draw an arch around the cylinder. The arch should consist of two straight, parallel, vertical lines, connected at the top by a curved line.
Extend two straight lines from the arch. Connect them using a curved line, enclosing another cylinder shape. Extend the bottom line past the cylinder, and draw a short, straight line below it, meeting at a right angle.
Draw the cab of the train. Begin by drawing three straight, vertical lines. Draw a small curved line and a short, straight line at the top of the outermost lines. Then, connect the lines using straight lines, forming a three dimensional shape.
Enclose the bottom of the figure using two long, narrow rectangles.
Draw a smaller arch within the previous arch. Then, draw a curved line across the top of the smaller arch.
Inside the original oval, draw an oval within an oval. Then, draw a star inside the innermost oval.
Draw a series of circles beneath the train to form the wheels. Then, draw a curve on one side of each wheel to give the wheels depth.
Draw the hub of each wheel using a small circle within a circle.
Draw the “cow catcher,” or safety grate, at the front of the train. Begin by drawing a diagonal, nearly upside down pentagon. Enclose three sides of the pentagon with narrow rectangles. Between the first and second wheel, draw a triangle within a triangle.
Erase any guide lines. Draw a smaller pentagon within the previous, and detail the grate using straight, parallel lines. Behind the grate, draw three parallel lines. Draw vertical lines between the bottom and middle lines.
Draw the wheels on the other side of the train between the grate and first and second wheels. Don’t forget the curve that adds depth and the circular hub caps.
Draw the smoke stack on top of the large cylinder. Extend short, parallel lines upwards. From the parallel lines, draw diagonal lines, then another set of parallel lines. Connect the lines using a curved line, and add detail by crossing curved lines across the smoke stack.
Draw straight lines parallel with the roof of the cab. On the front and side of the cab, draw rectangles to form the windows. Then, draw vertical lines through the windows.
Detail the front of the train. Draw a curved rectangle on the large cylinder, and cross it with a set of diagonal lines. On the small cylinder, enclose a shape using a curved line.
Draw the track beneath the train using three parallel lines. The near lines form one side of the track. Draw lines between the upper and middle line to form the cross ties.
Enclose a shape above the smoke stack using many curved lines. This cloud-like shape is the steam or smoke created by the train’s engine.
Color your train.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​ ​UFO' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​​ ​UFO
The Complete UFO Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a narrow oval, slanted diagonally. This will form the middle section of your UFO.
2. ​​On the underside of the oval, draw a long, curved line, following the curvature of the oval. Connect the line to each side of the oval. This gives the middle of the UFO a three dimensional appearance.
3. ​​​​​​​​​Use a long, curved line to enclose a semicircle on the bottom side of the oval. This forms the base of the UFO.
4. ​​​​​​​Draw a smaller oval within the original oval. Then, draw a curved line across the bottom of the oval, giving the shape a three dimensional lip. This shape will help form the top portion of the UFO.
5.​​ ​Enclose a semicircle above the smaller oval, using a curved line connected to the oval on each side.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the top of the UFO.
7. ​​Add detail to the UFO. Draw small circles along the top of the middle portion, each slightly flattened on the bottom. On each side of the top portion, enclose a half circle using a short, curved line. Give the top of the UFO a reflection of light, as if made of glass. To do this, draw a small, curved rectangle to one side, and a small, upside down triangle beneath it.
8.​​​ ​UFOs are often known by their eerie lights. Draw an array of long, straight lines extending from beneath the base of the UFO.
9.​​ ​Add further detail by drawing a straight or slightly curved line between the small circles, bridging the space between the large and small ovals. Then, draw an irregular, rounded square shape on the base of the UFO to form an escape hatch. Detail the hatch by drawing a curved line across its top and side.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​​​Color your UFO. Check out our other out of this world drawing guides, including an alien, the earth, the night sky,and the moon.
Watch 'How to Draw a Truck' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Truck
The Complete Truck Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a square. This will form the body of the truck.
2. Draw a rectangle extending from one side of the square. This will form the truck’s cargo bed.
3. Next, detail the cab and outline the front end of the truck. Extend a diagonal line from the top of the square. Draw a straight, horizontal line extending from its side, and a shorter straight line perpendicular to this. Then, connect this to the diagonal line using a curved line, enclosing the shape.
4. Detail the truck. Draw a set of curved, parallel lines where the bed and cab join. Draw two parallel, horizontal lines across the bottom of the rectangle.
5. Erase the guide lines from the truck, leaving a clean outline.
6. Add further detail to the vehicle. Enclose the passenger window using two straight lines and a curved line. Draw a curved shape like a comma to indicate the door handle. Draw a half circle across the bed of the truck, and another on the front end, to indicate the wheel wells. Enclose curved rectangles at the back of the truck bed to signify the rear bumper and tail lights. Continue the parallel lines from the truck bed across the cab, and draw a curved rectangle from the front fender to the front of the truck to represent the front bumper.
7. Erase the guide lines from the wheel wells.
8. Beneath each wheel well, draw three circles, one within the other. This represents the tire, wheel, and hub cap. Then, connect the tire to the body of the truck using straight lines.
9. Draw a rounded rectangle to represent the front headlight, and another for the rear view mirror. Erase guide lines as necessary. Draw the gas cap on the truck bed using a small circle, and sketch straight, diagonal lines across the window.
10. Color your truck. Vehicles can come in a rainbow of colors, so be creative. Why not expand your drawing to include an entire scene? Put some clouds in the sky and grass beneath the wheels. Perhaps this truck is about to be crushed by a monster truck. Or, maybe it is hard at work on the farm, tending cows, horses, and pigs. It is your drawing, so the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​​​a Teddy Bear with a Heart'  Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a ​Valentine Bear
The Complete Teddy Bear with Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the bear’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw two smaller, partial circles at the top of the original circle. These will form the bear’s ears. Inside each ear, sketch a circular shape using a series of short, curved, overlapping lines. This details the inside of the ear and gives it a furry appearance.
3. ​Draw a heart. Allow the top of the heart to overlap the bottom of the head.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide line from the heart.
5.​ ​​​​Draw an oval overlapping the heart. This will form the bear’s paw. Notice that short lines were used on one side to give it a furry appearance. Using a series of curved lines, sketch in the arm. Note the curved lines that form the bend of the elbow. Erase guide lines as necessary.
6. ​​​​Sketch in another oval above and behind the heart, forming the other paw. Again, note the furry overlapping lines. Use a long line for the arm and shoulder. Notice the short lines indicating fur near the neck.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw two more furry circles, indicating the bear’s feet. Connect them using a long, curved line. Then, use short lines to indicate the joints of the legs to the bear’s body.
8. ​​​​​​​Sketch a furry circle at the bottom of the head. This will be the bear’s snout. Draw a curved, upside down triangle at the top of the snout, forming the nose. Add shine to the nose using a small oval. Draw a straight line downward from the nose, and join it to a large, “U” shaped smile. For each eye, draw a small circle surrounding a smaller circle, and shade between the two. Finally, use short lines to indicate fur near the top of the head.
9. ​​​Draw a trail of short lines parallel to the outline of the heart, indicating stitches. Write the words “I Love You” across the heart.
10.​ ​​Color your bear. Early teddy bears were brown, but today they may resemble black bears, polar bears, pandas, or even come in a rainbow of colors. Hearts, too, are typically depicted in shades of pink or red, but the choice is yours.
​Want to expand your skills by tackling more hearts and bears? From polar bears, to grizzly bears, to teddy bears, we’ve got them all. Don’t be broken hearted, because we’ve got the drawing tutorials for you.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an Alarm Clock' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Alarm Clock
The Complete Alarm Clock Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the face of the alarm clock.
2. Draw another circle within the first circle. This signifies the rim around the face of the alarm clock. Then, draw another circle within the innermost circle, narrowly spaced.
3. Extend two sets of short, diagonal lines from the bottom of the clock. Connect each set of lines at the bottom using a short line. These form the alarm clock’s supportive feet.
4. Draw two sets of narrowly spaced diagonal lines emerging from the top of the alarm clock. Enclose each set of lines using a small circle, flattened on one side. These arms will support the bells of the alarm clock.
5. Draw a curved line across the top of the arm. Connect the two ends of the curved line using a straight line, enclosing a half circle. Then, draw a curved line beneath the half circle, from one end of the straight line to the other. This forms the first bell that allows the alarm clock to ring.
6. Repeat this process to form a mirror image of the first bell. Begin by drawing a semicircle across the remaining arm, using one curved and one straight line. Then, draw a curved line beneath the straight line, connected at each end. This forms the second bell.
7. Erase the guide lines from the bells.
8. Draw a pair of curved, parallel lines from the top of one bell to the other. Between the bells, draw a small rectangle. Connect it to the clock using a pair of lines. This forms the hammer, which moves back and forth to ring the bells.
9. Draw the clock face. Write the numbers 3, 6, 9, and 12 in their respective positions on the clock. Draw two dots between each number, and another dot in the center of the clock face. From this central dot, extend two elongated diamonds, one longer than the other. These form the hands of the clock, and you can set their positions to whatever time you would like. In our example, the clock reads 9 o’clock. Don’t forget to draw the long, straight line that represents the second hand.
10. Color your alarm clock.
Are you an eager student of school themed drawing tutorials? Check out our man-made objects section, where you’ll find school buses, books, lunches, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Watering Can' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Watering Can
The Complete Watering Can Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a horizontal line. From each end, extend a straight line downward and at a diagonal angle. Then, enclose the figure using a curved line. The result should be a trapezoid with a curved bottom. This forms the central portion of the watering can.
2. Band your watering can with a pair of curved lines and a single curved line.
3. Enclose a small triangle at the top of the can. This is the lid or shield that prevents the water from spilling out.
4. Draw two large, parallel, “U” shaped lines at the top of the can. This forms one of the can’s handles.
5. Draw a circle within a circle at the bottom of the handle. This indicates how the handle is attached.
6. Draw another pair of curving lines at the back of the watering can. After connecting to the can at the bottom, allow the lines to curl and meet in a gentle point. This forms the handle of the watering can.
7. Draw two lines extending from the front of the watering can, converging as they go. Where they overlap the can, connect the lines using a shorter curved line. This forms the watering can’s spout.
8. Erase guide lines from the spout.
9. Draw an oval at the end of the spout, forming the rose. Divide it using a curved line. Draw dots to one side of the line to indicate the holes through which the water pours out.
10. Color your watering can. Will it be plain grey metal, or as bright as the flowers in your garden?
Speaking of gardens, draw your watering can something to water using our selection of plant drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Violin' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​​ ​a Violin
The Complete Violin Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​Begin by drawing a downward facing “U” shaped line. At each of the tips of the “U”, turn the line outward. Attach a short curved line, forming a point. This forms the violin’s upper bout.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​Continue the curved line on one side of the violin. Then, connect another, longer curved line, forming another point. This outlines one side of the waist and lower bout.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​​Repeat on the opposite side to form a mirror image, enclosing the violin using two curved lines.
4. ​​On one side of the violin, use a series of curved lines to follow the violin’s shape, giving the drawing a three dimensional appearance. Connect the lines to the violin using short lines where needed.
5.​​ ​Enclose an elongated pentagon in the middle of the lower bout. Extend a set of straight lines downward, and connect them using a short line. This forms the tailpiece.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw curved lines with spirals on the ends along each side of the violin’s waist. Between these lines, draw a parallelogram, forming the bridge. At the top of the waist, use two curved lines to enclose a curved shape.
7. ​​​High above the body of the violin, use straight and curved lines to enclose a highly irregular shape. This is the violin’s scroll and pegbox.
8.​​​ ​​​​​Draw long, straight, parallel lines from the pegbox to just above the tailpiece. Draw a small circle at the end of each line, and a corresponding circle on the tailpiece. You have just drawn the violin’s strings and fine tuners.
9.​​ ​​Draw pairs of short, straight lines extending from the pegbox, each ending in a circle. These are the tuning pegs. Draw a straight line from the pegbox to the upper bout, indicating the neck. Draw the bow, beginning with three parallel lines. Enclose an irregular shape at the top using curved lines, and a small rectangle at the bottom, marked by a small circle.
10. ​​​​​​​Color your violin. Since violins are made of wood, they are usually brown in color.
​​Want to make more beautiful music? Try using our guitar drawing guide.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an ​Arrow' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ an ​Arrow
The Complete Arrow Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a long, straight line. This will outline the shaft, or the long wooden portion, of the arrow.
2. ​Draw another straight line, parallel to the first. Leave only a small space between the two lines.
3. ​​​At one end of the shaft, extend a short, straight line from each of the existing lines, downward at a diagonal angle. This will form the bottom of the arrow head.
4. ​Draw a straight line from each of the lines in the previous step, meeting in a point to enclose a triangular shape. This completes the outline of the arrow head.
5.​​ ​​At the bottom of the arrow, extend a short, straight line. From this line, extend another short line at an opposite angle. This begins to outline the nock, the part of the arrow that is placed on the string of the bow.
6.​ ​​​​​Extend a short line from the other side. Then, enclose the diamond shaped nock using a final straight line.
7. ​Add dimension to the arrow by drawing a straight line down the lengths of the arrow head and the nock. Use a short line to enclose the ends of the shaft, separating it from the nock and arrow head.
8.​​​ ​​​Just above the nock, enclose a parallelogram – a slanted, four sided shape – along the arrow’s shaft. Repeat to form a mirror image on the opposite side. This forms the arrow’s fletching, also called vanes or feathers. The fletching gives the arrow stability, helping it reach its target.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​Texture the fletching by banding it with straight, parallel lines.
10. ​​​​​Color your arrow. Ancient arrows were made of wood, stone, and metal, and thus were colored in shades of brown or grey. Modern arrows are made of plastic, metal, fiberglass, and other materials. Thus, they come in every color imaginable.
Watch 'How to Draw an ​Easter ​Basket' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​an Easter ​​Basket
The Complete Easter Basket Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​Begin by drawing a horizontal, flattened oval. This will form the opening of the basket.
2. ​​​​​​​​Draw a curved line parallel to the bottom of the oval, and connected to it on the ends. This forms the basket’s rim.
3. ​​​​​​​​​Draw two curved lines extending downward from the sides of the basket. Connect the lines using a horizontal curved line. This outlines the basket itself.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw three curved, horizontal lines across the basket, separating it into four sections. In the top section, draw squiggly, curved, vertical lines. In the second section, draw zig zags formed of two lines each, enclosing arrow-like shapes. Across the bottom two sections, draw straight, vertical lines. These different types of lines form the weave and decoration of the basket.
5.​ ​​​Draw a set of curved, parallel lines above the basket, extending from one side to the other. This is the basket’s handle.
6. ​​​Draw a bow on the basket, erasing as necessary. Draw a curved square for the knot, and irregular shapes for the sides of the bow and the ribbons. Detail the bow with short, curved lines.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw long, upside down “U” shaped lines within the basket. These are the eggs.
8. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase guide lines as necessary.
9. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Decorate the eggs using curved lines, circles, stars, flowers, and other shapes.
10. ​​​​Color your basket. And don’t keep all your eggs in one basket – check out our other fun drawing tutorials today!
Watch 'How to Draw an "I Love You" Heart' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an "I Love You" Heart'
The Complete “I Love You” Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a heart. Use two curved lines, allowing them to overlap in an “M” shape at the top. At the bottom, the lines should meet at a point.
2. Draw a curved line across the heart. This will form the top of the banner. Then, draw a wavy line to connect it to the side of the heart, forming the end of the banner.
3. From one side of the heart, draw a curved line downward. Then, drape it across the front of the heart, connecting to the bottom of the banner on the opposite side. This fully encloses the shape of the banner.
4. Erase guide lines from the banner.
5. Draw a flower, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw a small circle to form the center of the flower. Then, draw curved lines outward from the circle, like the spokes of a wheel. Connect the lines using curved lines, enclosing the shape of each petal. Define the petals by drawing short curved lines emerging from the central circle.
6. Draw a second flower, partially hidden by the first. For the flower’s center, draw a spiral-shaped line. Then, draw wavy lines in layers around this rounded shape. Each line forms a new layer of petals.
7. Draw leaves on each side of the second flower. For each leaf, extend two curved lines from the flower and allow them to meet in sharp points. Draw a line down the center of the leaf to form the central vein. Then, draw lines from the vein to the outer edge of the leaf to form secondary veins.
8. Draw additional ribbons emerging from behind the heart. For each ribbon, use two curved lines. Draw them in a spiral pattern, becoming more closely spaced until they meet at a sharp point.
9. Write the words “I Love You” on the banner in front of the heart. Now, you are ready to give your drawing to someone you love.
Color your heart. Often, hearts are shaded pink or red. You can find many other heart and flower drawing guides to show your loved ones just how you feel.
Watch 'How to Draw an Anchor' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing an Anchor
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start with a straight vertical line in the middle of the page. This will be the shank of the anchor.
Add a small circle at top of the line. This will be the ring of the anchor.
Draw a horizontal line a little below the circle. This will become the stock of the anchor.
Sketch a large half-circle at the bottom of the line. This will be the arm of the anchor.
Add a small circle inside the anchor ring.
Draw two more vertical lines at both sides of the first vertical line.
Draw a curving line above the anchor stock.
Draw another curving line under the anchor stock.
Join the curving lines from the previous two steps with short curving lines. The stock of the anchor is beginning to take a shape.
Add two more short curving lines inside the stock.
Sketch a half-oval shape above the big half-circle we did in the beginning.
Draw an elongated S-shape under the anchor arms.
Do the same on the other side.
Draw an arrow-shape for the palm of the anchor.
Draw the other anchor palm.
Sketch a small bean-shape at the anchor ring.
Draw a long curving line to form a rope from the bean-shape.
Trace the previous line and draw another line parallel to it.
Add a lot of short curves inside the rope. Make sure they are curving the same way to enhance the impression of a rope texture.
Erase extra lines in the stock and shank.
Color your anchor drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw an Igloo' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Igloo
The Complete Igloo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line, like a semicircle, to outline the top of the igloo.
2. Connect the ends of the semicircle to enclose the shape of the igloo.
3. Draw a curved line like an upside down “U” overlapping one side of the igloo. This begins to outline the igloo’s entrance.
4. Draw a curved line from one side of the “U” shaped line, parallel to the “U” shaped line. Then, draw another curved line from the top of this line.
5. Connect the lines from the previous using a curved line.
6. Draw a smaller “U” shaped line inside the original “U” shaped line. This outlines the opening of the entrance.
7. Connect the ends of the two “U” shaped lines using straight lines. Connect the far side of the inner “U” to the opposite wall of the “U” using a straight line.
8. Erase guide lines from the igloo.
9. Detail the igloo to resemble bricks of ice. Band the igloo with curved horizontal lines. Then, draw vertical lines between the horizontal lines.
Due to the color of snow, igloos are generally white. However, feel free to add shadows to your igloo in shades of blue or gray, as shown in our illustration. Or, be creative and color your igloo in any color of the rainbow.
Complete your scene! Check out our selection of animal drawing guides, where you’ll find Arctic denizens such as moose, huskies, polar bears, whales, wolves, and more. Then, check out our miscellaneous drawing guides for snowflakes, snowy scenery, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an Hourglass' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ an Hourglass
The Complete Hourglass Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a flattened, horizontal oval. This will form the wooden top of the hourglass. Then, make the top three dimensional by drawing a long, curved line from one end of the oval to the other, parallel to the bottom side of the oval.
2. ​​​​​​​​Begin to draw the supportive sides of the hourglass. Extend two curved lines downward from one side of the oval. Notice how the lines curve outward and inward in tandem. Enclose the lines using a short, curved line at the end. Enclose a curved shape around this point using another, slightly longer curved line.
3. ​​​​​Draw the support on the opposite side. Again, extend a pair of curved lines, curving inward and outward in tandem. Enclose the end of the figure by drawing a curved shape, using two short, curved lines.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Continue to draw the sides of the hourglass. From each of the sides, extend a pair of long, curved lines. Then, enclose the lines at the end using a short, curved line.
5.​ ​Draw the upper glass bulb of the hourglass. Extend a curved line from each side of the frame. Notice that the lines converge before diverging again, forming the narrow neck between the bulbs.
6.​ ​​​Draw the bottom bulb by extending a long, curved line from each side of the upper bulb, to the supporting frame.
7. ​​Enclose the bottom bulb of the hourglass using a long, curved line. Then, connect the sides of the frame using a pair of parallel lines, one slightly longer than the other. This forms the wooden base of the hourglass.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​​To draw the sand within the hourglass, begin with a flattened oval spanning the upper bulb. From this, extend a pair of curved lines downward, following the shape of the bulb and neck. Once in the bottom bulb, the lines should remain roughly parallel until they reach the bottom of the hourglass. Then, extend the lines outward in an irregular, upside down “V” shape. Connect them using a curved line. This forms the mound of sand. Add texture to the sand using curved lines and small round shapes. Use curved lines to draw the back of the hourglass, behind the sand.
9.​​ ​​​​​Detail the the hourglass. Draw pairs of parallel curved lines along the frame, and enclose curved shapes upon the glass.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your hourglass.
Would you like play in the sand a bit longer? Check out our desert drawing guide.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Bacon and Eggs' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Bacon and Eggs Breakfast
The Complete Bacon and Eggs Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a large oval. This will form the top of the plate. Then, beginning on one side of the oval, draw a curved line, parallel to and narrowly spaced from the oval. Attach the line on the opposite side. This gives the plate a three dimensional appearance.
2. Draw a slightly smaller oval within the first. This indicates the indention on the top of the plate. Inside this oval, draw a curved line from one side of the oval to the other, following the curvature of the top of the oval. This also adds depth to the image.
3. Next, outline the eggs. Use a curved line to enclose an irregular, wavy shape. Then, use a second curved line to enclose another irregular shape. Notice how the shapes appear to overlap, as if one egg was on top of the other.
4. Erase guide lines from the eggs.
5. Draw an oval in the center of each egg to indicate the egg’s yolk.
6. Erase the guide lines from the egg yolks.
7. Draw strips of bacon. For the first strip, draw a pair of wavy, parallel lines. Connect the lines on each end using a short, curved line. Then, for each subsequent piece of bacon, begin with a single wavy line. Connect this line to the previous bacon slice with two short lines, as if the slices overlap.
8. Erase the guide lines from the bacon.
9. Draw wavy lines down the length of each strip of bacon.
10. Color your bacon and eggs. Typically, eggs are white with yellow or orange yolks. Bacon ranges in color from tan to brown to red.
Don’t forget where your food comes from. Get down on the farm with these pig and chicken drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Candy Cane' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a Candy Cane
The Complete Candy Cane Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​Begin by drawing a pair of straight, parallel lines, slanted diagonally. These lines form the straight portion of the candy cane.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​Draw a long, curved line, connecting the tops of the parallel lines. Note how the line curves in a “U” shape, doubling back on itself to form the crook of the candy cane. Connect the parallel lines at the bottom using a short, curved line.
3. ​​Draw an irregular circle in the middle of the candy cane. This will form the knot of the bow.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Use a long, curved line to draw one side of the bow. Extend the line outwards from the knot, and curve it so that it has two lobes before connecting to the knot once again.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Repeat the process described in the last step to form a mirror image. Again, use a long, curved line to enclose one side of the bow.
6. ​​​​Erase guide lines from the bow.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Extend two sets of lines from the knot of the bow, each set curving outward. Connect each set of lines at the bottom by drawing an upside down “V.” These lines form the ribbons emanating from the bow.
8. ​​​Erase guide lines from the ribbons.
9. ​​​​​Detail the bow by drawing curved lines outward from the knot, in each of the ribbons and on each side of the bow. Then, draw curved lines across the candy cane to indicate the stripes.
10. ​​Color your candy cane. Traditionally, candy canes are striped in white and red. Today, however, you can find fruit flavored candy canes striped in other shades or even rainbow colors, as well as candy canes sporting the colors of sports teams or organizations – for example, pink candy canes for breast cancer awareness.
Are you hungry for more? Use our handy drawing guides to learn to draw other sweet treats, such as cakes, pie,and cupcakes.
Watch 'How to Draw Cartoon Money' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Cartoon Money
The Complete Cartoon Money Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line, like one half of an upside-down heart. This begins the outline of the money bag.
2. Draw another curved line mirroring the first. The lines should connect at the bottom in an overlapping manner. This completes the base of the money bag.
3. Using two curved lines, enclose a curved shape at the top of the money bag. This is the rope that ties the money bag closed. Texture the rope with curved lines.
4. Draw two curved lines extending upward, one from each side of the rope.
5. Connect the curved lines using a long wavy line, outlining the top of the bag.
6. Connect the tips of the wavy line using additional wavy lines. This indicates the far side of the bag’s top, giving it a three-dimensional appearance. Draw curved lines extending upward and downward from the rope, indicating folds in the fabric.
7. Outline the shape of the letter “S” on the front of the bag.
8. Draw a narrow rectangle through the “S,” erasing guide lines as necessary. This forms the shape of a dollar sign, or “$.” Texture the bag using short curved lines and dots.
9. Draw coins that have fallen from the bag. For each coin, draw a narrow horizontal oval. Then, draw a short line descending from each side of the oval. Connect these lines using a curved line, outlining the side of the coin. Texture the side of the coins with short lines.
Who is the wealthy aristocrat or thieving criminal in possession of this bag of money? Take your pick from our selection of character and people drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Candy' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Candy
The Complete Candy Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This outlines the first candy.
2. Extend curved, diagonal lines outward from each end of the candy. Connect each set of lines using a additional wavy, curved line. These shapes outline the twisted candy wrapper. Extend curved lines, each shaped like the letter “J” from the candy. These lines add texture and depth to the wrapper.
3. Decorate the candy with stripes. Draw sets of narrowly spaced, parallel curved lines across it.
4. Draw a rectangle with rounded corners. This outlines your second candy.
5. Extend sets of diagonal curved lines from the candy as you did with the first. Connect each set of lines using curved, wavy lines. Draw curved and “J” shaped lines extending from the candy to add texture to the wrapper.
6. Decorate the candy with wavy, diagonal lines. Draw a curved line in two opposite corners.
7. Draw an oval to outline the third candy.
8. Extend diagonal sets of curved lines from each end of the candy. Connect each set of lines using a wavy line. Draw curved lines extending from the candy to add depth and texture to the wrapper.
9. Decorate the wrapper with small circles.
Color your candies. Candy wrappers are often brightly colored, so be creative!
Candies make great party foods. Let’s get this party started and draw more fun items such as a cake and fireworks.
Watch 'How to Draw Christmas Lights' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Christmas Lights
The Complete Christmas Lights Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a pair of parallel, horizontal wavy lines – the lines are formed from segments of curved line connected at upturned points. These will form the wires or cords for two strings of lights.
2. Enclose small shapes, each like a rounded rectangle, on the top side of the upper wire. Then, use a curved line to enclose a teardrop shape above each rectangle. These form the first of the lightbulbs. Enclose a small oval within each bulb to represent the shininess of the glass.
3. Enclose small rectangular shapes along the bottom side of the uppermost wire. Then, enclose an upside-down teardrop shape beneath each. Finally, enclose a small oval within each bulb.
4. Draw many short lines descending from the second wire. Enclose a small circle beneath each, followed by a much larger circle. Texture each ornament with small dots.
5. Draw a long, curving, curling line, which doubles back upon and crosses itself many times. This will form another strand of lights, one not yet hung.
6. Enclose small rounded rectangular shapes along the strand. Above or below each, depending on its position, enclose a pointed oval shape, forming the small bulbs.
7. Continue to draw bulbs along the strand, first by enclosing a small, rounded, rectangular shape, then a pointed oval. Don’t forget to draw a small oval within each bulb to indicate its shine.
8. Continue to draw additional bulbs along the strand, first with a rounded rectangle, then a pointed oval, and finally a small oval within it.
9. Complete your holiday lights by drawing bulbs to the end of the strand.
Color your Christmas lights. In the past, many Christmas lights were either white or red and green. Today, blue is a popular color. String lights also come in colors suited to other holidays – for example, orange or purple for Halloween; red, white, and blue for Independence Day; green for Saint Patrick’s day; and green and purple for Mardi Gras. White or clear string lights are often used for celebrations year-round.
Watch 'How to Draw Christmas Ornaments' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Christmas Ornaments
The Complete Christmas Ornaments Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long curved line. This will form the string from which the ornaments hang.
2. From the string, extend a straight line downward. Draw a small rounded shape at the end of it, forming the knot of the bow. Use a curved line to enclose an irregular rounded shape on each side, completing the bow. Extend two short lines downward from the bow. Connect them by drawing a circle to complete your ornament.
3. Draw another straight line downward from the string. Draw a set of parallel, upside down “U” shaped lines, and connect them with a curved line. Extend two short lines downward from each end of this line, and connect them by drawing a perfect circle. This completes your second ornament.
4. Decorate your ornaments. Band one with curved lines, and mark the other with polka dots. Use curved lines to sketch a bow tied above the ornament.
5. Extend another straight line downward from the string. At the end of the line, draw a small circle, with a large circle beneath it. Sketch a bow tied to the string above the ornament.
6. Draw a small circle overlapping the string, erasing guidelines as necessary. Beneath the circle, use curved lines to sketch a five-pointed star shape. Band the base of the uppermost point with two curved lines to create the appearance of a Santa Claus hat.
7. Decorate your ornaments. Draw a smiling face upon the star, and band its points with curved lines. Band the round ornament with two curved lines. Draw another curved line across the bottom, ending it at a small shaded circle. This gives it the appearance of a jingle bell.
8. Extend a straight line downward from the string. Use curved lines to enclose a rounded “L” shape, forming a stocking. Use a curved line to band the top, toe, and heel of the stocking. Then, use additional curved lines to form stripes.
9. Extend a straight line downward from the string. Enclose a tiny rounded triangle, and a small rectangle beneath it. Under the rectangle, draw a series of small circles. Finally, use two curved lines to enclose the round and pointed shape of the ornament. Decorate it using curved lines.
Color your ornaments. Christmas ornaments are often brightly colored.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​a Christmas ​Present' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a Christmas ​Present
The Complete Christmas Present Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a slanted square. The top and bottom lines should be parallel and diagonal, the sides completely vertical. This will give your present a three dimensional look.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​From the top and bottom of the first square, extend a set of parallel lines on the opposite diagonal. Then, connect them using a straight line. This forms another side of the box.
3. ​​​​​Use two straight lines, along with the tops of the previously drawn squares, to enclose the top of the box.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw another set of lines parallel to those drawn in the previous step. This begins the lid of the box.
5.​ ​Draw short, straight lines from the lid lines, parallel to the sides of the box. Then, connect these lines using two straight lines, enclosing the lid.
6. ​Erase the guide lines from the lid.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Make the lid appear three dimensional as well. Draw two lines parallel to its bottom lines, then connect the corners using a short, straight line.
8. ​​​​Draw a bow on top of the box. Begin by drawing a circle in the middle of the lid. Enclose a curved shape on each side of the circle using a long, curved line. Draw another, smaller curved line within each shape, forming loops of ribbon. Beneath the knot, extend two more ribbons. For each, draw a pair of roughly parallel lines extending from the knot. Connect them at the end using two short lines. Notice the notch in each ribbon’s ending, indicating where it was cut. Erase guide lines as necessary.
9. ​Draw ribbons wrapped around the present. On each side and on top of the box, draw two sets of parallel lines, perpendicular to one another. Notice how the ribbons on the lid are slightly offset from the rest of the box.
10.​ ​​​Color your present. The ribbons and wrapping paper can be any color you want, so be creative. Are there wonderful toys inside this present? Why not to draw a few using our teddy bear, robot, and toy car drawing tutorials.
Remember, presents aren’t just for Christmas time. You can give someone a present any time of the year. Why not brighten someone’s day by giving them a present today. A drawing made by hand is an excellent present, especially when you use one of our many easy drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​a Christmas Wreath' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a Christmas Wreath
The Complete Christmas Wreath Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to outline the shape of the wreath.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw a smaller circle within the first. This outlines the interior edge of the wreath.
3. ​​​​Draw pairs of parallel, curved lines across the wreath, between the two circles. These lines indicate a ribbon wrapped around and around the wreath.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Using short, curved lines, draw small, jagged points sticking out from both the interior and exterior surfaces of the wreath. Most wreaths are made from holly, pine, or other evergreen plants. These lines indicate the prickly leaves or needles of the evergreen boughs.
5.​ ​Carefully erase the guide lines left by the original circles from the wreath. When finished, your wreath will have a rough texture, almost furry in appearance.
6. ​​​​​​Draw a bow on top of the wreath. To draw the bow, first draw an irregular circle at the wreath’s uppermost point. Then, on each side of the circle, extend a long, curved line.
Angle the line to form the two lobes of ribbon before doubling back to connect to the circle once more.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from behind the bow.
8. ​​​Draw two ribbons dangling from the bow. For each, use a long, curved line. Double the line back upon itself. Then, draw an ornament between each section of ribbon spiraling the wreath. Begin each ornament with a circle. Then, use a short curved line to enclose a small, rounded, rectangular shape atop the circle. Use a final curved line to enclose a rounded shape above the small rectangle. Notice that in each section, the top of the ornament is facing a different direction.
9. ​​​Finally, decorate the wreath with tiny circles all around. If the wreath is made of holly, these could indicate berries, or they could be small ornaments.
10.​ ​​Color your wreath. Classic colors are red and green, but today, many other colors are used – including blue and white, silver and gold, or green and purple.
Check out other festive drawing guides, including Santa Claus and a Christmas tree.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​Cinco de Mayo' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Cinco de Mayo
The Complete Cinco De Mayo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by enclosing a curved shape, resembling a banana. This shape will form the bottom of the sombrero.
2. ​​Enclose a slightly smaller banana shape inside the first. This forms the inner folds of the hat’s brim, giving it dimension.
3.​ ​​​Extend a long, curved line downward from the brim of the hat, then curve it around to follow the shape of the brim. Attach the line to the brim on the opposite side. You’ve just enclosed the front of the hat’s brim.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​From the interior of the brim, draw a long, curved line, upwards. Curve the line back down, enclosing an irregular shape. This forms the crown, the raised central portion of the hat.
5.​​ ​​Erase guide lines from the crown, leaving a clean outline of the sombrero.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Decorate your sombrero with interesting patterns. Use a series of connected, curved lines to form a wave-like pattern on the front of the brim. Draw a similar pattern at the bottom of the crown, and add an encircling curved line just above it.
7. ​Begin to outline your maracas. Begin by drawing an oval or egg shape, but leave the line unconnected at the bottom. Extend another curved line downward from the opening. Double it back upon itself to enclose the figure.
8.​​​ ​Draw the second maraca behind and at an angle to the first. Again, begin with an egg shape, but leave it open at the bottom. Extend two curved lines from the opening, to connect with the handle of the first maraca. Complete the second maraca’s handle be enclosing a small, rounded shape on the opposite side.
9. ​​Decorate your maracas. Draw pairs of curved, parallel lines across both the rattle and the handle. Draw a set of parallel zigzag lines as well. Draw small circles between some of the lines.
10.​ Color your maracas and sombrero. These items are often brightly colored, so be creative.
Don’t let the party stop there! Check out our other fun drawing guides, including a cowboy hat, fireworks, and two different types of guitars.
Watch 'How to Draw Cookies' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Cookies
The Complete Cookies Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw an oval to form the plate which will hold the cookies.
2. Draw another, slightly larger, oval surrounding the first. This outlines the rim of the plate. Then, draw a curved line from one edge of the plate to the other, enclosing a curved shape beneath it. This outlines the side of the plate.
3. Draw a rounded shape overlapping the edge of the plate, forming the first cookie. Notice how the top of the shape is rough rather than smooth, as if drawn using a zigzag line. Texture the cookie using a short line.
4. Use a curved line to enclose another oval shape partially hidden by the first cookie. Then, use an additional curved line to draw another cookie. You now have a stack of three cookies. Use curved lines to add dimension to the sides of the cookies.
5. Draw another cookie on the plate beside the stack. Notice how the top of the rounded shape is formed using a wavy line. Add dimension to the side of the cookie using curved lines.
6. Draw small ovals on top of each cookie. Are they chocolate chips or raisins? That is up to you to decide. Draw a curved line across the back of the plate, passing behind the cookies, to give the plate dimension.
7. Extend two straight lines upward from behind the plate. This begins the outline of the glass of milk.
8. Draw two lines within the glass, parallel to the outer lines. Connect each set of lines using an oval, forming the rim of the glass as well as the milk it contains.
9. Set the scene. Draw a straight horizontal line to indicate the edge of the table or counter on which the milk and cookies are sitting. Texture the table with straight lines of various lengths. Use straight lines to outline the square panels of a window in the wall. Outside, Use curved lines to sketch a pine tree and small circles to indicate falling snow.
Color your milk and cookies.
Hungry for more? Get your fill when you check out our objects drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a ​Cowboy Hat' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for ​a ​Cowboy Hat
The Complete Cowboy Hat Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines, set at a slight diagonal. This outlines the sides of the hat.
2. Connect the lines at the top using a curved line.
3. ​​Connect the lines at the bottom using a curved line, enclosing the top of the hat. This is called the crown.
4. Using a long, curved line, begin to outline the hat’s brim. Loosely follow the shape of the crown of the hat.
5. Connect the far side of the hat to the hat’s crown using a curved line. For the near side, you will enclose a curved shape indicating the underside of the upturned brim. Loop a long line around, crossing the bottom of the crown of the hat.
6. Erase guide lines from the hat.
7. Draw a band around the hat. Just above where the top of the hat connects to the brim, draw a curved line. Allow it to follow the curvature of the hat.
8. Draw a decorative buckle or medallion on the band of the hat. Draw a circle within a circle, erasing as necessary.
9. Add texture and detail to your hat. Draw an irregular curved shape on the top of the crown, noting how it dips forward. Draw curved lines on the hat and its brim for shape and texture.
10. Color your cowboy hat. Some of the most common colors are black, brown, white, and pink. What’s a cowboy without his horse? Learn to draw one with our horse drawing guide, and set the scene with desert and cactus drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Dogwood Flowers' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Dogwood Flowers
The Complete Dogwood Flowers Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by making a circular shape using small, connected, “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the flower.
2. ​​​​​​​Around the center, sketch the flower’s four petals. Notice that the petals are rounded, like irregular circles, but with a “C” shaped notch in the middle.
3. ​​​​​​​Emerging from behind one of the petals, draw a semi-circle, again using small, connected, “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the second flower.
4. ​Using curved lines, sketch the four petals belonging to the second flower. Again, note the “C” shaped notch in each of the rounded petals.
5.​​ ​​​A short distance from the first two blooms, draw another circular shape made from small “U” shaped lines. This will form the center of the third flower.
6.​ ​Using curved lines, sketch the four rounded petals of this third and final flower. Don’t forget the “C” shaped notches.
7. ​​​​​​​​Draw a forked stem between the two sets of flowers using sets of parallel lines. Extend another set of stem lines past the flowers, and enclose the end of the stem using a small oval. Then, sketch the crinkled leaves of the dogwood tree. Use two wavy lines for each leaf, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​Detail the centers of the flowers by drawing a smaller circle made of connected “U” shaped lines within each. Draw a curved line down the length of each leaf to indicate the vein. Fill in any bare spots with additional leaves.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Add the finishing touches to your dogwood flowers. Texture the petals using curved lines, extended outward from the center of the flower.
10. ​​​​​ ​​Color your dogwood flowers. Some dogwood blooms are solid white, others solid pink, and some a combination of both colors. Why not try shading your flowers like the ones in our example, pink on the tips and fading to white at the center? Colored pencils can make this shading easy and fun.
Would you like to send other secret flower messages? Check out our plant drawing guides to brush up on your skills, and learn the meanings of various flowers from resources such as the Old Farmer’s Almanac.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​​​School Bus' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​School Bus
The Complete School Bus Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​​Begin by drawing a long, horizontal rectangle. On one end, draw the short side at a diagonal angle. This rectangle will form the bus’s windows, and the diagonal side will comprise the front windshield.
2. ​​​​​From the bottom corner of the windshield, extend a slanted, straight line. Draw another, shorter line downward. This forms the hood and front of the school bus. Next, draw a straight, horizontal line from the front of the bus, extending past the windows. This outlines the bottom of the vehicle.
3.​ ​Draw a straight line parallel to the top of the windows. Then, connect this line to the bottom of the bus using another straight line. Curve the corners where these lines meet and where the line attaches to the windows. You have now enclosed the outline of the bus.
4. ​​​​​Next, you will outline the bottom of the bus, including bumpers and wheel wells. Starting from the front, draw a straight line down and another parallel to the bottom of the bus. Next, attach a semicircle to form the wheel well, and another straight line. Then, draw another semicircle and straight line. Connect this to the back of the bus with a curved line.
5.​​ ​​​​​​Erase guide lines from the wheel wells.
6.​ ​In each wheel well, draw a circle within a circle. This forms the tire and hubcap. To form the ground, draw a straight line beneath the wheels. Then draw additional straight lines to add detail to the ground.
7. ​​​​Draw parallel straight lines along the side of the bus. For the back tail light, enclose a small rectangle. Use a rounded rectangle for the headlights, and detail it with horizontal lines. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8.​​​ ​​​​Detail the bus by drawing straight lines near the front wheel. Then, draw straight, vertical lines to separate the windows. Draw a set of diagonal straight lines on each window to indicate a reflection.
9.​​ ​Write the words “SCHOOL BUS” on the side of the bus.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​Color your school bus. Most school buses are bright yellow, but at times they are other colors, such as a school’s official colors.
Learn to draw other vehicles with our car, truck, and monster truck drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Easter Eggs' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​Easter Eggs
The Complete Easter Eggs Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval that is narrow at the top and wider at the bottom. This outlines the first egg.
2. Draw a second egg shape, an oval that is narrow at the top and wider at the bottom.
3. Draw a third oval, wider at the bottom, to form yet another egg.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Band the first egg with several curved, horizontal lines. Near the center, draw a pair of wavy lines. These lines form different types of stripes.
5. On the second egg, draw a set of parallel curved lines around the middle. Then, on each side of this stripe, draw a zigzag line.
6. Band the third egg with pairs of gently curving lines, some horizontal and some diagonal.
7. Add additional details to the first egg. Within each of the wide stripes, between the lines, draw small flowers. For each flower, draw a circle for the center and use “U” shaped lines for petals. Detail the second egg by spotting portions with small circles.
8. Detail the third egg with wavy curved lines, star shapes, and circles of various sizes.
9. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Use short, curved lines to draw tufts of grass beneath the eggs. Texture the ground between them with additional grass.
10. Color you eggs.
​Will these eggs hatch? If so, what will they be? The choice is yours. Check out our selection of bird drawing guides to add one to your picture.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Fireworks' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​Fireworks
The Complete Fireworks Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rectangle, tilted at a diagonal angle. This forms the fuselage, or body, of the first firework rocket. Draw a triangle at its top, and a pair of narrowly spaced, parallel straight lines at its base.
2. Draw another, slightly smaller rectangle, tilted to the opposite diagonal. Draw a triangle on top of it, and two narrowly spaced, straight, parallel lines at its base – these form the fuse.
3. Ring both fireworks with straight, diagonal lines, forming stripes.
4. Begin to draw another type of firework using a flattened oval. Draw a curved line across the oval, then encircle the shape with curved lines.
5. Draw curved lines of various lengths extending outward from the firework. Then, draw tiny stars and dots amid these lines to indicate sparks.
6. Draw an irregular rounded shape, larger at the bottom and smaller at the top. Connect the top using a short, straight line. Stripe the shape with curved lines. This firework should resemble a flower vase.
7. From the vase shaped firework, draw a flame erupting upwards. Use lines of various lengths, and allow some to connect in sharp points.
8. Draw straight lines extending in a starburst pattern from the fuses of the original fireworks, and draw tiny stars to indicate sparks. Draw lines, dots, and stars surrounding the flame of the vase shaped firework.
9. Draw a set of sparklers. For each sparkler, draw a set of narrowly spaced, straight, parallel lines. Connect the lines on the ends; stripe the sparkler and shade between the stripes. Draw straight lines in a starburst pattern around the tip, and stars to indicate sparks.
10. Color your fireworks display. The earliest fireworks came in only white or yellow, but today are available in a rainbow of colors.
Watch 'How to Draw ​French Fries' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ French Fries
The Complete French Fries Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a slightly curved, inverted trapezoid. That is, draw a rectangular shape that is slightly wider at the top than it is at the bottom. This forms the front of the fast food box or wrapper.
2. Extend diagonal lines from each of the corners on one side of the trapezoid. Connect these lines using a straight line. This forms the side of the fast food box.
3. Enclose a diamond shape at the top of the box, using two straight lines.
4. Begin to draw your French fries. Start by drawing a set of parallel lines. Connect them at the top using two short lines. Use two more short lines to enclose an irregular square shape at the top of the French fry. Then, extend a long line down the length of the fry. Erase guide lines as necessary. Enclose the second fry using a long and short straight line, as if it is behind the first fry. Detail the top of the fry using a short, straight line.
5. Fill your box with fries. Extend multiple sets of parallel lines. Enclose a square shape at the top of each fry. Then, draw a long line down the length of it. Notice that the French fries emerge from the box at different angles, and that they appear to overlap each other. Erase guide lines as necessary.
6. Draw additional fries, using one or two lines to enclose each. Add dimension by drawing a line down the length of the fry. Erase guide lines as necessary.
7. Finish filling your box of fries. Draw them as before – a pair of lines connected using a square shape on the end. Add dimension using a long line down the length of the fry. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. Fill in any empty space by drawing more fries emerging from behind others.
9. Detail the fry container by striping it with vertical lines.
10. Color your French fries. Fries are usually yellow or tan, and many fast food containers use the color red.
Hungry for more drawing guides? Learn to draw hamburgers, burritos, bacon and eggs, and more using our simple drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw Frosty the Snowman' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Frosty the Snowman
The Complete Frosty the Snowman Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form Frosty’s head.
2. Draw a curved line across the top of Frosty’s head. Then, draw an oval shape around his head, like a halo. This will from the brim of his silk hat.
3. Draw two lines upward from the brim of the hat. Connect them at the top using a curved line. This forms the crown of the hat. Then, cross the bottom of the crown with a curved line, forming the hat band.
4. Erase the guide lines from the hat and head.
5. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the head. Then, draw an oval shape around the bottom of the head. Notice the overlapping curved lines on one side of the oval shape. This forms Frosty’s scarf. Then, draw two parallel curved lines descending from one side of the scarf. Connect them using a curved line.
6. Erase guide lines from the scarf.
7. Draw two long curved lines downward from the scarf. Connect them at the bottom with a slightly curved line. This forms Frosty’s body.
8. Draw two curved lines at the bottom of the snowman; enclose each shape using a nearly straight line, forming Frosty’s feet. Use a series of curved lines to craft Frosty’s arms and hands. Draw parallel lines to form the broomstick, and curved lines for the base of the bristles. Use straight lines and “V” shaped lines to craft the tip of the broom. Erase any guide lines as neccessary.
9. Add details to your drawing. Draw a flower on his hat using a small circle for the center and curved lines to enclose the petals. Erase guide lines as neccessary. Decorate the scarf with wavy lines, and draw Frosty’s face. Use “U” shaped lines to form the smiling mouth, and ovals for the eyes and nose.
Color Frosty the Snowman.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Gas M​ask' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ ​a Gas Mask
The Complete Gas Mask Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing an oval. This will help you to outline the basic shape of the gas mask.
2. ​​​Beneath the oval, extend a long, curved line, enclosing a shape that extends from one end of the oval to the other. this forms the bottom portion of the gas mask, that which covers the mouth and chin.
3. ​​​​​​​​​Sketch two curved lines across the top of the oval. The lines should extend just beyond the oval, meeting to enclose a curved shape. Draw another curved line just above the oval, and allow it to intersect this shape as it extends beyond the oval. This details the top of the gas mask.
4. ​​​​​Draw two large circles within the oval to form the eyes of the gas mask. Within each circle, draw two additional, smaller circles. Then, surround each eyepiece with curved lines of various lengths. This gives the texture of fabric around the eyepieces.
5.​ ​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines left by the original oval.
6. ​​​​​​Draw a large circle beneath the eyes. Within this circle, draw three more progressively smaller circles. Between the two smallest circles, draw three straight lines spaced at equal intervals. This forms part of the respirator, or mouthpiece, of the gas mask.
7. ​​​​You will now draw additional portions of the respirator. On each side of the gas mask, draw an oval. Then, extend two straight lines from the oval to the interior of the mask. Connect these using a curved line, forming a cylinder shape. Draw another curved line across the cylinder, near the oval.
8.​​​ ​​Erase any remaining guide lines from the drawing.
9.​​ ​​​​Detail the respirators by shading with parallel straight lines.
10. ​​Color your gas mask. Since most gas masks are military issue, they are usually designed to match camouflage uniforms, in shades of green or brown
Watch 'How to Draw Gems' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Gems
The Complete Gems Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a pentagon, or five-sided shape, with rounded corners. This will form the first gem. Then, draw a diamond to form the second gem.
2. Next, you’ll draw a number of differently shaped gemstones. Draw a hexagon, or a six-sided shape. In the center, draw a rectangle but do not connect the corners. Instead, draw short straight lines to connect the primary lines of the shape. For the final gem, draw two straight lines like an open-ended triangle. Then, draw two shorter straight lines at an opposite diagonal from the first. Finally, connect these using a horizontal line, fully enclosing the shape.
3. Draw short lines inward from each of the corners of the pentagon. Then, connect these using slightly curved lines. This gives this gemstone a three-dimensional shape.
4. Draw a curved horizontal line across the middle of the diamond. Then draw straight lines from the top and bottom corners to the central line. These lines should form two triangular shapes. These lines give the gem a three-dimensional appearance.
5. On the central gem, draw curved vertical lines between the upper and lower corners. Then, draw short straight lines from the remaining corners to the curved lines. Finally, draw straight horizontal lines to connect the curved lines. This gives the gemstone a three-dimensional appearance.
6. Draw an “X” shape in the upper, lower, and side sections of the central gem. This accentuates the cut appearance of the gemstones.
7. Draw straight lines between the upper corners and the lower point, forming a triangle shape. Then, draw a straight horizontal line between the remaining corners. Finally, use two short straight lines to enclose a triangle shape in the upper section. This gives the gemstone a three-dimensional appearance.
8. Draw a smaller hexagon shape within the existing hexagon. Then, draw short straight lines between the corners of the two hexagons. This gives the gemstone a three-dimensional appearance.
9. Draw an additional straight line between each of the short straight lines, accentuating the cut of the gemstone.
Color your gems. Gemstones can come in almost any color. Common precious stones include green emeralds, red rubies, and purple amethyst.
Watch 'How to Draw Gold' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Gold
The Complete Gold Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two straight, diagonal lines that are roughly parallel to one another. These lines form the top of the gold bar.
2. Connect the lines at each end using short straight lines. Then, extend diagonal lines from the front of this shape, connecting them to form a trapezoid. This is the front of your first gold bar.
3. Draw a long straight line from the corner of the trapezoid, parallel to the original lines. Use a shorter line to connect it to the upper corner of the bar. You now have one complete, three-dimensional bar of gold.
4. Next, use four straight lines to enclose a rectangle shape around the base of the gold bar. This will form the tops of the bars beneath it.
5. Use three straight lines to enclose a trapezoid along the front of the rectangle, forming the front of the gold bars.
6. Draw a straight line from the corner of the trapezoid, parallel to the side of the rectangle. Connect it to the corner using a short straight line.
7. Draw an inverted triangle beneath the first gold bar. This will form the space between the gold bars below.
8. Erase the guide lines within the triangle.
9. Draw a straight line across the bottom of lower bars, across the front and side. Then, draw straight lines just below the front and side edges of the upper bar. Connect these lines to the corners of the bar using short lines.
Color your gold bars. Notice that in our example, we’ve used two different shades of yellow to give the picture depth, dimension, and shadow.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​​Graduation Cap' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ ​​Graduation Cap
The Complete Graduation Cap Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a rhombus, or a slanted square with sides of equal length. This outlines the top of the hat.
2. ​​​​​​​Draw straight lines parallel to two of the rhombus’ sides. Connect these lines to the three points of the shape using short lines. This forms the near edge of the hat’s top, giving it a three dimensional appearance.
3. ​​​​​​​Draw two straight lines descending from the top of the hat, positioned halfway of each near side. Note that the lines diverge outward slightly at a diagonal angle.
4. ​​​​​Enclose the bottom portion of the hat using a long, curved line.
5.​​ ​​​Draw a small oval in the center of the hat’s top. Draw a curved line parallel to one side of the oval to give it a three dimensional appearance. This is the button to which the tassel will be attached.
6.​ ​Draw a pair of curved parallel lines crossing from the button to the edge of the hat, then drooping downward. This is the string of the tassel.
7. ​​​​​​​​Erase guide lines from the tassel.
8.​​​ ​At the end of the tassel string, draw a circle. Below the circle, draw a series of flattened ovals. This represents the top of the tassel.
9.​​ ​From the top of tassel, extend a pair of long, curved lines. Connect them at the end with a series of short lines forming a tight zigzag pattern. Detail the tassel by drawing lines of different sizes along its length. Texture the top of the tassel with short, curved lines.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​​​Color your graduation cap. Traditionally, these hats are black with golden tassels. Those of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries were red in color. Today, however, many are designed to match school colors.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​a​ ​Gingerbread Man' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​​a ​Gingerbread Man
The Complete Gingerbread Man Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the gingerbread man’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Next, extend a “U” shaped curved line from one side of the head. This will form the gingerbread man’s arm.
3. ​​Extend a “U” shaped line from the opposite side of the head, forming a mirror image.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Below one arm, draw a long, curved line that doubles back upon itself. This will form the gingerbread man’s leg.
5.​ ​​​On the opposite side, draw another long, curved line, forming a mirror image of the first leg.
6. ​​​Erase the guide line from the head, and you will have a clean outline of your gingerbread man.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​It’s time to decorate this cookie. Draw parallel sets of wavy lines across the arms and legs. These indicate icing on the cookie, which in turn represents the cuffs of the gingerbread man’s clothes.
8. ​​​​​​Draw circles in the middle of the gingerbread man to form the gumdrop buttons. Above the buttons, draw a bow tie. Draw an irregular circle for the bow’s center knot, and use curved lines to enclose irregular shapes on each side of it, forming the bow.
9. ​Give the gingerbread man a face. Draw two circles for eyes. Within each, shade the pupil, leaving a dot uncolored to add a spark of life. For the mouth, enclose a curved “U” shape.
10.​ ​​​​Color your gingerbread man. Gingerbread cookies are typically a golden brown.Need some other delectable treats to keep this cookie company? Sate your appetite with our cake, pie, and cupcake drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw Handcuffs' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Handcuffs
The Complete Handcuffs Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Use a long curved line to outline a shape like a letter “C.” Notice that the top of the “C” has a bulge and that it is thicker than the rest of the shape. This forms one side of the handcuff, called the double strand. Use a curved line to enclose a curved shape on each side of the bulge, giving the handcuff a three-dimensional appearance.
2. Draw a pair of curved lines to connect the ends of the “C” shape. This is called the single strand.
3. Draw a long curved line from the middle of the “C” shape to its tip, mirroring the shape of the “C.” This adds to the cuff’s three-dimensional appearance.
4. Detail the handcuff. Draw several small circles within the bulge of the “C.” These are known as pawl pins and cheek rivets. Then, add shadows and depth with a hatching technique. Hatching uses many parallel, narrowly spaced lines to shade a drawing. Use hatching around the rivets, along the curve of the single strand, and along the three-dimensional sides.
5. Use a curved line to enclose a small “L” shape on top of the bulge. This is called the swivel, and it allows the handcuffs to be connected. Shade the swivel with hatching.
6. Draw an oval around the end of the swivel. Then, draw a smaller oval within the first. This forms the first link of the chain that holds the handcuffs together.
7. Draw an oval around the end of the chain line, erasing guide lines as necessary. Enclose a rounded shape at the opposite end to form the swivel, and shade it with hatching. Finally, enclose a flattened oval within the link to indicate the opening.
8. Outline a “C” shape with a bulge on the top to form the double strand of the second cuff. Draw a curved line parallel to the inside of the “C,” and shade the enclose shape with hatching. Draw small circles within the bulge and at the end of the “C,” indicating pawl pins, cheek rivets, and the single strand rivet.
9. Connect the ends of the “C” using three curved lines, completing the single strand of the handcuffs. Shade with hatching.
Color your handcuffs. Most cuffs are silver, black, or grey. Then, check out our people drawing guides, where you just might find a criminal to catch.
Watch 'How to Draw Hockey Sticks' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Hockey Sticks
The Complete Hockey Sticks Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, diagonal line. This will become one of the hockey sticks.
2. Draw a second straight, diagonal line, parallel to the first. This outlines the shaft of the hockey stick.
3. Draw a curved line to connect the parallel lines at the top, completing the butt end of the stick. Then, use a long curved line to enclose the rounded, club-like toe of the hockey stick.
4. Band the hockey stick with curved lines, just above the heel, or bend, of the stick, and across the toe.
5. Draw a straight line, diagonal at a perpendicular angle to the first hockey stick. Notice how this line appears to pass behind the first hockey stick, essentially consisting of two straight lines.
6. Draw straight lines parallel to the previous line, outlining the shaft of the second hockey stick. The two sticks should resemble the letter “X.”
7. Enclose the top of the shaft using a short curved line. At the bottom, use a long curved line to form the toe.
8. Band the second hockey stick’s shaft just above the heel, and also band the toe. Notice how the banding on the second stick differs slightly from that of the first.
9. Draw a small horizontal oval between the toes of the two hockey sticks. Draw straight lines descending from each side of the oval, and connect these lines using a curved line. This object is the hockey puck.
Color your hockey sticks. Feel free to color the sticks to match your favorite hockey teams.
Feeling sporty? You’ll find a gym full of sports equipment among our objects drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​​Happy New Year 2018' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​​​ ​Happy New Year's Picture
The Complete Happy New Year 2018 Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle within a circle. This will outline the “Happy New Year” sign.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Within the circle, outline the letters of the word “Happy.” By outlining the letters, instead of just writing them, you allow space to color within the word. Alternatively, you can use a wide-tipped marker to simply write the letters and achieve a similar effect.
3. ​​Beneath the word “Happy,” outline the letters of the word “New.”
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Beneath the word “New,” outline the letters of the word “Year.”
5.​ ​​​Outline a balloon overlapping the “Happy New Year” sign. To draw the balloon, begin with an irregular circle shape, like an upside down egg. At the bottom of the balloon, enclose a small irregular shape, curved on top and wavy on the bottom. This forms the tied end of the balloon. Finally, draw a long, curved line for the balloon’s string.
6. ​​​Erase guide lines from the balloon.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Outline the number “2018” on the balloon.
8. ​​​​​​Draw additional balloons and streamers in the background. For each streamer, extend a pair of long, parallel, curved lines, and allow them to meet in a point. For each balloon, enclose an irregular circle, with a tiny triangle beneath it. Then, draw a long, curved line for the string.
9. ​​Decorate the balloons with curvy lines. Draw star​​​​s of various sizes across the background. Now, it looks like a party!
10.​ ​Color your drawing. How will you use it? Will you make a card, or a party banner? The choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​​ ​Hot Air Balloon' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​​ ​Hot Air Balloon
The Complete Hot Air Balloon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you draw the shape of the balloon.
2. ​​Draw a curved line, originating nearly at the top of the circle. Allow it to run parallel to the circle,then continue downward below it.
3. ​​​​​​​​​Draw another curved line, beginning at a point nearly at the top of the balloon. This line should follow a course similar to the first, resulting in a mirror image.
4. ​​​​​​​Draw a flattened, horizontal oval beneath the bottom of the balloon. Connect the oval to the rest of the balloon using two short, curved lines. This forms the skirt of the balloon, attached to the envelope, or fabric body.
5.​​ ​Draw a curved line across the top of the balloon’s skirt.
6.​ ​Erase the original circle, leaving a clean outline of the balloon.
7.​ Draw four straight lines descending from the skirt of the balloon, nearing each other but not connecting. Connect them using a straight, horizontal line. This indicates the balloon’s burners, the heat source that keeps it aloft.
8.​​​ ​​Beneath the burners, enclose a trapezoid. Under the trapezoid, enclose a rectangle. This forms the balloon’s basket, where the people ride. Then, draw clouds all around the balloon. For each cloud, use a series of curved lines to enclose a fluffy shape.
9.​​ ​​Decorate your balloon. Draw many curved, vertical lines crossing the balloon. Then, connect these lines with two sets of curved, horizontal lines, forming a stripe across it.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your balloon. Hot air balloons are often decorated with bright, stunning colors. Choose your favorite colors, and be creative!
Would you like to draw more airborne items? With our drawing guides, you can learn to sketch an airplane, various birds, a starry sky, and much more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Hot Chocolate' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Hot Chocolate
The Complete Hot Chocolate Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the open top of the cup.
2. Inside the oval, draw a curved line from one side to the other, following the curvature of the bottom of the oval. This indicates the lip, or top edge, of the cup. Then, draw a line from one of the outer sides of the oval to another. This line should extend downward, flattening, and forming the cup itself.
3. Enclose an oval shape at the bottom of the cup, using a curved line. The oval should be partially eclipsed by the cup itself, forming the cup’s base.
4. Give the cup a handle. Draw two “C” shaped curved lines, parallel to one another, connecting to the outside of the cup. One line should be smaller than the other.
5. Draw a curved line within the mouth of the cup, following the curvature of the original oval’s top edge. This indicates the liquid held in the cup.
6. Next, draw marshmallows floating in the hot cocoa. For each marshmallow, enclose a small, irregular rounded shape. Then, draw short curved lines beneath each marshmallow to indicate ripples in the liquid.
7. Erase guide lines from the marshmallows.
8. Add detail to your drawing. Use curved lines of various lengths to indicate additional ripples in the liquid. Then, band the cup with parallel, diagonal curved lines, creating decorative stripes.
9. Draw steam rising from the hot beverage. Use curved lines of various lengths, snaking upward as they form loose “S” shapes. Enclose a few small, irregular shapes as well.
10. Color your mug of hot chocolate. Get creative as you decorate your mug.
Many people enjoy hot chocolate the most when it is cold outside. Learn to draw a complete winter scene using our winter scenery, snowman, and snowflake drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Ice Cream' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Ice Cream
The Complete Ice Cream Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a shape like a letter “V” using two straight lines. This outlines the bottom of the ice cream cone.
2. Connect the top of the “V” using a curved line. Draw another curved line just above it, parallel to the first. Connect the lines using short curved lines at each end. This forms the next portion of the cone.
3. Draw a long, curved line upward from each side of the ice cream cone. This will outline the upper portion of the cone.
4. Connect the lines using a curved line. Draw another curved line just above it, parallel to the first. Connect the lines using short curved lines at each end. This forms the upper rim of the cone.
5. Add a scoop of ice cream. Enclose a circular shape, the bottom of which is hidden by the top of the cone.
6. Draw another incomplete circle, partially hidden by the first. Then, enclose another circular shape between this scoop and the cone.
7. Add detail to the ice cream cone. Draw two curved, horizontal lines across the middle portion of the cone. Then, use diagonal curved lines to draw a checkerboard pattern across the bottom of the cone.
8. Top your ice cream. Enclose an irregular shape at the top of each circle using a wavy, curved line. This indicates a flavorful sauce.
9. Enclose small circles and ovals to indicate sprinkles on top of the ice cream. Lightly draw short, curved lines to add texture to the ice cream.
10. Color your ice cream. What flavor do you like best? Chocolate ice cream is usually brown in color; vanilla is white; strawberry is pink. There are plenty of other flavors, too – green mint, orange sorbet, and even blue and yellow Superman ice cream.
If you’re eating your dessert first, you may next want to draw a hearty meal. Check out our easy drawing guides for hamburgers, hot dogs, turkey dinners, and more
Watch 'How to Draw Jeans' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Jeans
The Complete Jeans Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by using curved, wavy lines to enclose a narrow horizontal rectangle. This will form the belt that is holding up the jeans.
2. Next, draw the belt loops and buckle. To form the first belt loops, enclose a curved shape at each end of the belt. Then, draw a small circle in the middle of the belt, and a short line beside it. On each side of this belt buckle, enclose a curved shape. Draw a short curved line crossing the belt, double it back upon itself, and connect it to the starting point to enclose the shape. Erase guide lines as necessary.
3. Extend two curved lines downward from the belt buckle to form the fly. Connect these lines using a “U” shaped line. Draw curved lines on each side of the “U” to indicate creases in the fabric.
4. Draw long lines descending from one end of the belt and from the fly. This outlines one leg of the jeans.
5. Draw long lines descending from the opposite side of the belt and from the fly, outlining the remaining leg.
6. Enclose each leg at the bottom using a curved line. Then, draw another curved line beneath each leg. Connect this line to the previous using short curved lines. This forms the cuffs, or upturned ends, of the pant legs.
7. Draw the front pocket. Enclose an irregular shape at the top corner of the jeans using a curved line. Give it dimension by drawing an unconnected parallel line beneath it.
8. Draw the second front pocket. Enclose the shape using a curved line, then outline it with unconnected curved lines.
9. Detail your jeans. Enclose coin pockets above the front pockets using curved lines. Draw a circle beneath each pocket to indicate the rivets, metal fasteners that lend strength to the garment. Draw long curved lines down the outer side of each leg, and shorter horizontal curved lines across the legs in numerous places to indicate creases in the fabric.
Color your jeans. Classically, denim pants are referred to as “blue jeans,” but they also come in black, brown, and a whole rainbow of colors.
Who wears the pants in your drawing? Check out our people drawing guides and learn how to craft your own unique character.
Watch 'How to Draw Lemonade' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Lemonade
The Complete Lemonade Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two straight vertical lines. The lines should be parallel to one another, forming the sides of the glass.
2. Connect the lines at the bottom using a curved line, and at the top using a flattened oval. This completes the outline of the glass.
3. Draw a pair of narrowly spaced straight lines, parallel to one another, passing through the oval and into the glass. At the top of the lines, above the oval, draw two more straight lines connected to the first. These should also be parallel to one another, and connected to the first set of lines at a diagonal angle. Connect the lines at the end using a small oval. This forms a bendable straw. Then, draw curved lines along the top of the glass, just below the oval, to add detail.
4. Draw a rectangle with rounded corners inside the glass. Draw a curved line from one corner to the other along its top side. This forms the liquid held inside the glass.
5. Draw two squares with rounded corners inside the liquid. Use curved lines to add texture to two sides of each square. These are the ice cubes that keep the lemonade cold.
6. Draw two more squares with rounded corners, and detail the edges of each with curved lines. These form additional ice cubes.
7. Just below the top of the liquid, draw a short horizontal line. From this line, extend a pair of straight, parallel lines, passing behind ice cubes as necessary and keeping the same diagonal slant as the upper portion of the straw. Connect the lines at the bottom, completing the straw. Then, detail the liquid by drawing horizontal curved lines across the glass.
8. Next, draw a lemon perched on the edge of the glass. Extend straight lines outward from the sides of the glass, and connect them using a curved line, forming a half circle shape.
9. Detail the lemon. Draw triangles with rounded points within the slice to indicate the sections, called supremes. Use two lines to outline the portion of the lemon that can be seen through the glass.
Color your lemonade. Plain lemonade is pale yellow in color, but flavored lemonades are often pink.
Hungry for more? Check out our Objects and Plants Drawing Guides for more delicious drawing fun.
Watch 'How to Draw Mittens' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Mittens
The Complete Mittens Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long curved line. The line should have two upward facing lobes – one small lobe and one large lobe. This outlines the thumb and fingers of the first mitten.
2. Draw a second long curved line, again with two lobes – one large and one small. This forms the thumb and fingers of the second mitten.
3. Connect the ends of each mitten using a slightly curved line, fully enclosing the shape. Then, use this line as the basis for a curved rectangle with rounded corners. This shape forms the hem or wrist of the mittens.
4. Decorate your mittens with fun patterns. First, draw a zigzag line across the fingers of each mitten.
5. Draw a large diamond in the center of one mitten. Then, draw a smaller diamond within the first diamond.
6. Draw a large diamond in the center of the second mitten. Then, draw a small diamond within the large diamond.
7. Draw four small diamonds around the large diamond on the first mitten.
8. Draw four small diamonds around the large diamond on the second mitten. Then, texture your mittens and give them dimension. Do so by tracing curved lines of various lengths just inside the outline of each mitten.
9. Rib the hems of each mitten with short curved lines.
Color your mittens. Perhaps you can visit our object drawing guides and draw a scarf to match!
Who will wear your mittens? Visit our selection of people drawing guides to design your very own hand-drawn friend.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Mother's Day Heart' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ a​ Heart for the Mother's Day
The Complete Mother’s Day Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ Begin by drawing a heart. To draw this familiar shape, use two curved lines, meeting in downward facing points at both the top and bottom.
2. ​​​Draw a pair of curved, horizontal lines across the the heart. This will form the “mom” banner.
3. ​Enclose each end of the banner using a short, curved line.
4. ​​​Beneath the banner, where it overlaps the edge of the heart, draw a short, straight, vertical line. Draw a second straight line extending from the first, the lines meeting at a perpendicular angle. This begins the ribbon-cut end of the banner.
5.​​ ​​​​Extend a slightly curved line outward from the edge of the banner. Connect this line to those below it using a “V” shaped line, enclosing the banner.
6.​ ​​​​​​​On the opposite side, extend a vertical line downward from the point where the heart and the banner meet. Then, extend a longer curved line from the bottom of this line at a perpendicular angle.
7. ​​Extend a curved line from the banner, and connect it to lines below it using a “V” shaped line. This encloses the end of the banner, forming a mirror image.
8.​​​ ​​Erase the guide lines of the heart from the banner.
9.​​ ​​To indicate the folds in the banner and give it a three dimensional appearance, draw a curved line from the edge of the central portion of the banner to the corner of the banner end. Then, write the words “I Love You” across the heart and “Mom” across the banner.
10. ​​​​​ ​​​​​Color your heart.Remember, Mother’s Day comes only once a year, but hard-working moms need our appreciation year-round. Every day is a good day to say “I love you, mom.”
If love is in the air, check out our other heart based drawing tutorials, including a teddy bear with an “I Love You” heart and a broken, bandaged heart.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Pancakes' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Pancakes
The Complete Pancakes Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will outline the top of the first pancake.
2. Draw a long, curved line beneath the oval, connected to it on each side. The line should follow the outline of the oval. This forms the side of the pancake, giving it a three-dimensional appearance.
3. Draw a long, curved line beneath the pancake, slightly offset from the first. Connect it to the pancake on each side. This forms the top of a second pancake. Then, draw another long, curved line from one side of this shape to the other, outlining the side of the pancake.
4. Draw another curved line beneath the second pancake, outlining the top of a third pancake. Draw another long, curved line from one side of this shape to the other, forming the side of the pancake.
5. Outline the top of yet another pancake at the bottom of the stack, this one slightly larger than the previous. Use another curved line to enclose the side of the pancake.
6. Draw syrup drizzled on the pancake. Begin by drawing an oval shape on top of the uppermost pancake, leaving the bottom portion open. From each side of the open space, draw a curved line down across the stacked cakes. Notice how it curves back and forth as it crosses each cake. Allow one of the lines to arch widely, enclosing a puddle of syrup beneath the cakes. Then, double the lines back upon themselves until they reach the top cake. Use a curved line to connect them, fully enclosing the syrup.
7. Erase the guide lines from the syrup.
8. Draw short, curved lines to add texture to the syrup. Follow the curvature of the syrup as it flows down the pancakes.
9. Draw a dollop of butter on top of the pancakes. Sketch a rounded, four-sided shape on top of the syrup. Extend short lines downward from the three nearest corners, and connect these lines with additional curved lines.
10. Color your pancakes. Both the cakes and syrup are typically seen in shades of golden brown and tan. Butter is usually yellow in color.
Hungry for more amazing drawings? We’ve got enough food drawing tutorials to satisfy any appetite. Check out our guides for drawing pizza, desserts, fruit, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ Pocket Watch' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​ Pocket Watch
The Complete Pocket Watch Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This outlines the basic shape of the pocket watch.
2. ​​​​​Draw a slightly smaller circle within the first circle. This outlines the face of the watch.
3. Use short lines to draw an hourglass shape on top of the circle. This part of the watch is called the crown.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​Draw a small circle around the crown. This will form the loop to which a chain is attached.
5. Draw a slightly larger circle around the previous circle, completing the loop.
6. Use a series of curved and straight short lines to draw an irregular shape beside the crown. This forms the knob used to set the time on the watch.
7. Draw the hands of the watch. Begin by drawing a dot in the center of the clock face, and a small circle around it. Then, draw thick lines extending outward. Remember, the position of these lines determines the time shown on the watch. Draw a long, narrow diamond at the end of each line, and shade it.
8. Draw a circle around the center of the clock face.
9. Draw numbers 1 through 12 around the outside of the clock face. In our example, we used Roman numerals – I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII.
10. Color your pocket watch. Traditionally, these watches were gold or silver in color.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​​Pie' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​​​Pie
The Complete Pie Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​Begin by drawing an obtuse scalene triangle, one in which no two sides are the same length. The longest side should be on the bottom. This forms the top of the pie slice.
2. ​​​​​Draw a short, straight line downwards from each corner of the longest line. These lines outline the side of the pie, making it appear three dimensional.
3. ​​​​​Round out the edges of the pie. Draw a curved line along the triangle’s longest line, the back of the slice, and to enclose the side of the slice between the two short lines.
4. ​​​​​Erase the guide lines left by the original triangle. You will be left with a clean outline of a pie slice.
5.​ ​Draw icing dripping from the top of the pie. Do this by drawing a long, wavy line across the side of the pie. The waves should be different lengths – some tall, others short.
6. ​​Draw the pie’s crust. To do so, draw a wavy line above the back of the pie. Connect it to the top of the pie on both ends, then draw a long line from the crust to the front of the pie, parallel to the outline of the pie’s side.
7. ​​​Draw a dab of whipped cream on top of the pie. First, draw a teardrop shape using two curved lines, but do not completely enclose the shape. Then, draw a curved line from one side of the teardrop to the other, enclosing the lower segment of the cream.
8. ​​​​Erase any remaining guide lines.
9. ​​​​​Decorate your pie with sprinkles by drawing small circles across the top.
10. ​​​​​​Color your pie. Will it be a deep chocolaty brown? White vanilla cheesecake? Yellow and lemony? Green key lime or orange pumpkin pie? Will the sprinkles be rainbow colored? The choice is yours. Bon apetite!
Still have a sweet tooth? Check out our cake drawing guide for more culinary fun.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Popcorn' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Popcorn
The Complete Popcorn Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a narrow, flattened oval. This will form the open top of the popcorn bucket.
2. Draw a curved line beneath the oval, following its shape. Connect the line to the oval on both ends. This forms the lip of the popcorn bucket.
3. Extend two straight lines downward from the lip of the bucket. Connect them at the bottom using a short line, forming the bucket itself.
4. Draw many straight, vertical lines between the rim and the bottom of the bucket. This gives the bucket a classic striped pattern.
5. Enclose a cloudlike, irregular shape emerging from the bucket. Use small, connected “U” shaped lines. This indicates the first of the popcorn within the bucket.
6. Draw more popcorn, overlapping the rim of the bucket. Again, use short, connected, “U” shaped lines. Overlap them, and add additional texture to the figure by sketching shorter chains of “U” shaped lines.
7. Add more popcorn to the bucket until it looks like it will spill out. Again, use chains of “U” shaped lines to enclose the shape of the popcorn.
8. Erase the guide lines left by the original oval.
9. Fill in any empty spaces within the popcorn using short chains of “U” shaped lines. Enclose two small irregular figures – also using chains of “U” shaped lines – at the base of the popcorn bucket. These shapes are popcorn kernels that have fallen from the bucket.
10. Color your popcorn. Traditionally, movie theater popcorn buckets were striped in red and white. The popcorn itself is typically either white or yellow with butter. You can use our eyes drawing tutorial to turn your popcorn into a Shopkins like Poppy Corn.
All this popcorn means it’s time for a movie. Draw your own fairytale adventure using our castle, princess, knight, and dragon drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Salad' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing Salad
The Complete Salad Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a horizontal oval. This outlines the shape of the salad plate.
2. Draw a smaller oval within the first. This indicates the inner portion of the rim of the plate. Give it a three-dimensional appearance by drawing another line along the upper curve of the oval. Then, draw a curved line beneath the oval, from one side to the other. This forms the side of the plate.
3. Draw a circle near the front of the plate. Then, use curved lines to enclose a series of partial circles behind it, as if the shapes were overlapping. These circles indicate slices of cucumber.
4. Erase guide lines from the circles.
5. Draw a smaller circle within the first circle. Then, draw a curved line parallel to the outline of each of the partial circles. This indicates the peel of the cucumber.
6. Draw another smaller circle within the first. This indicates the cucumber’s seed membrane. Draw similar shapes within each of the partial circles. Then, draw lines within the small circles, like the spokes of a wheel. Between the spokes, draw small narrow ovals to indicate the seeds.
7. Draw slices of onion. For each slice, draw a partial circle within a partial circle. Allow the shapes to overlap, erasing guide lines as necessary.
8. Next, draw the lettuce. Use curved lines that meet in points to indicate lettuce leaves. Use additional curved lines to indicate leaf veins. Fill in between the leaves and onions using curved, wavy lines and chains of “U” shaped lines.
9. Erase guide lines from the lettuce, then draw the sliced tomatoes. For each tomato, sketch an irregular shape, like a heart with a rounded point. Draw an upside down teardrop shape on each side to indicate the seed membrane. Then, use curved lines and dots to add texture and indicate seeds. Erase guide lines as necessary.
10. Color your salad. Health experts say that the more colorful your plate is, the better it may be for you. Make your salad colorful with green lettuce and cucumber, purple onions, and bright red tomatoes.
Hungry for more healthy drawing guides? Check out our collection of plant drawing guides for fruits and vegetables such as corn, pumpkins, apples, lemons, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw Santa's Sleigh' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Santa's Sleigh
The Complete Santa’s Sleigh Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two overlapping curved lines. These will form the front of the sleigh.
2. Draw a pair of narrowly spaced, curved parallel lines. Notice how the lines form a spiral, enclosing the front of the sleigh. They also outline the curvature of the sleigh’s side.
3. Draw a long curved line to enclose the front and side of the sleigh.
4. On the side of the sleigh, draw two curved lines in a spiral pattern. Allow the lines to meet at a sharp point on both ends.
5. Draw a straight line beneath the sleigh; at the front of the sleigh, curl the line into a spiral, overlapping the front of the sleigh. Draw another curved line in the spiral, pointed on one end and attached to the bottom of the sleigh at the bottom. Use curved lines to attach the runner to the sleigh at the back and in the middle.
6. Erase the guide lines from the sleigh’s runner.
7. Draw two curved lines, allowing them to form a spiral before meeting in a sharp point. This forms the second runner of the sleigh.
8. Use straight lines to draw an number of overlapping rectangles, squares, and cubes. These will become presents housed in the sleigh. Then, draw pairs of lines across the boxes to form the ribbons. Use curved lines to draw the bows on top of each gift.
9. Draw a curved line to form the back of the sleigh. Use curved lines meeting in sharp points to outline the Christmas tree. Draw a star at the top of the tree, and numerous stars and circles on the tree.
Color your sleigh. Santa’s sleigh is often depicted as red in color. You can also draw a reindeer to pull the sleigh.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Scarecrow' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Scarecrow
The Complete Scarecrow Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Scarecrows are often supported by two pieces of wood arranged in the shape of a crossbeam. To draw this, begin by drawing a pair of straight, horizontal, parallel lines. Enclose the ends of the lines using short, curved lines. Then, draw another set of straight, parallel lines, perpendicular to the first. Enclose the top of these lines with a short line.
2. ​​​Draw a short, straight, diagonal line near the top of the crossbeam. Enclose the space beneath it using a curved line. Note how the figure curves inward just below the straight line. This outlines the scarecrow’s head.
3. ​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the head, as well as the top of the crossbeam.
4. ​​Outline the scarecrow’s jacket. On each side of the upright beam, use long, curved lines to enclose sideways “L” shapes.
5.​ ​​​​Draw the scarecrow’s hat. Draw a curved line across the top of the head, and use an additional line to enclose a bell shape above it. Then, draw another curved line across the hat to separate the brim from the body of the hat.
6. ​​​Erase guide lines from the hat and jacket.
7. ​​​​​​Draw another line across the hat, forming a band. Draw short lines extending from beneath the hat, indicating the hair of straw. Draw more straw poking out of the ends of the sleeves. Draw circles and irregular squares on the jacket to indicate repairs and patches. Draw a few short lines along the edges of these shapes to form the stitches. Finally, draw tufts of grass beneath the scarecrow using short, curved lines.
8. ​​​​​​​Erase any remaining guide lines.
9. ​Detail the face using two shaded circles for eyes, an upturned, rounded triangle for the nose, and a “U” shaped line for the mouth. Add final details to the clothing as well – draw a collar on each side of the jacket, using two curved lines meeting in a triangular point. Draw a small, upside down triangle beneath the head, and extend a straight line from its point to the bottom of the scarecrow.
10. ​​Color your scarecrow and give him some crows to frighten using our raven drawing guide.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Spaghetti' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Spaghetti with Meatballs
The Complete Spaghetti Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a horizontal oval. This will form the open center of the bowl. Then, extend a curved line downward from the oval. The line should flatten before curving to meet the opposite side of the oval. This forms the side of the spaghetti bowl.
2. Begin drawing your spaghetti noodles. First, draw a long noodles using two parallel curved lines. Connect the lines on the end using a short, curved line. Then, extend pairs of curved lines and overlapping curved lines from the noodle to the edge of the bowl.
3. Draw several large spaghetti noodles trailing across the bowl. For each noodle, use a pair of parallel curved lines.
4. Fill in the texture of noodles within the mound of the spaghetti outlined in the previous step. Use pairs of curved lines and individual curved lines. Erase guide lines as necessary.
5. Draw a bit more spaghetti on top of what was already there. First, outline the shape of the spaghetti using pairs of parallel lines to indicate large noodles. Then, band the spaces in between with curved lines to indicate the texture of the noodles.
6. Draw a fork standing in the spaghetti. For the handle, use two long, parallel lines, connected by a short, curved line on the end. Then, use curved lines and “U” shaped lines to indicate the prongs of the fork, buried in pasta. Erase guide lines as necessary.
7. Fill your bowl with spaghetti. Indicate additional noodles using pairs of long, curved lines.
8. Enclose several irregular round shapes throughout the spaghetti to form meatballs. Erase the lines from each meatball.
9. Texture the meatballs using small curved lines.
10. Color your spaghetti and meatballs. Learn to draw more fun foods, such as pizza, in our collection of man-made objects drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw School Books' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ School Books
The Complete School Books Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an irregular, four-sided figure using four straight lines. This will form the top of the first book. Note how the sides converge slightly as they move away from the viewer. This is known as perspective, and the convergent lines are known as orthogonal lines.
2. Draw a short, curved line descending from each corner of the book cover. This outlines the top and bottom of the book’s spine, as well as the corners of the pages. Then, connect these lines using two straight lines.
3. Draw a second book resting atop the first. Draw a diamond to form the cover, with short, curved lines descending from each corner. Then, connect these lines using long, straight lines, completing the outline of the book.
4. Erase the guide lines from within the second book.
5. Draw a third book resting atop the first two. Begin by drawing an irregular diamond shape to form the book’s cover. Then, draw a short, curved line descending from each corner. Connect these lines using long, straight lines, fully outlining the book.
6. Erase the guide lines from within the uppermost book.
7. Draw a fourth and final book, a small one, resting atop the others. Draw a narrow, irregular diamond shape to form the book’s cover. Then, draw short, curved lines descending from each corner. Connect these lines using long curved lines.
8. Erase any guide lines from within the fourth book.
9. Detail your books by drawing many straight lines traveling from the spine and page corners towards the center of the pages. Then, label your books with academic subjects such as “MATH,” “HISTORY,” “SCIENCE,” and “LITERATURE.”
10. Color your school books. Today, many books are given soft paperback covers or are printed with pictures. Not long ago, however, most schoolbooks had hardcovers in solid colors. Picture books, novels, school books – the choice is up to you.
Are you looking for more back to school drawing fun? Get ready for band class by drawing your favorite musical instrument, or team up to get ready for your favorite sports. With our selection of drawing guides, you’ll never have to worry about being late for the school bus.
Watch 'How to Draw Sushi' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Sushi
The Complete Sushi Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the table. First, draw a rectangle, tilted diagonally. Extend short lines downward from three of the rectangle’s points. Connect these using long straight lines. Then, draw two small squares just beyond the edge of the rectangle. Connect the upper corners of the squares to the rectangle using short straight lines.
2. Draw the nigiri sushi, seafood on top of rice. Outline an irregular rounded shape, and band it with a curved line. Texture the lower rice portion with short lines and dots, the upper portion with wavy lines. Outline a small irregular shape at one end, and draw a line down its middle.
3. Draw another sushi. This one is topped with tamago, a type of sweet egg omelet, and wrapped in nori, or seaweed. Draw an irregular oval shape, and band it with a curved line. Then, draw two parallel curved lines across the middle, and texture this with small dots.
4. Up next are maki, or traditional sushi rolls wrapped in seaweed. First, draw two ovals. Then, draw curved lines descending from each end of the ovals. Connect these using curved lines, and texture the seaweed with vertical lines.
5. Detail what’s inside your sushi rolls. Draw irregular shapes and curved lines to indicate the fish, vegetables, and rice.
6. Draw another maki roll topped with roe, or fish eggs. Use small “U” shaped lines to enclose a rounded shape, then draw more “U” shaped lines inside the shape. Draw three lines descending from the roe, and connect them using a curved line.
7. Draw another sushi. Begin with a rounded rectangle, and draw an irregular shape inside it. Draw a line descending from each corner, and connect these with curved lines. Texture the seaweed with short lines.
8. Texture the tamago with curved lines, and draw a chopstick beside the table. Use two long straight lines, connected at a rounded point on each end. Notice that one point is sharper than the other.
9. Draw a second chopstick overlapping the first, erasing guide lines as necessary.
Color your sushi.
Watch 'How to Draw ​American Flag' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing the American Flag
The Complete American Flag Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a pair of narrowly spaced, parallel, vertical lines. Then, draw a small circle at the top. This forms the flag pole that will support the flag.
2. Extend two curved lines outward from the flagpole. The lines should be roughly parallel.
3. Connect the two lines drawn in the previous step using a curved line. The square shape thus enclosed forms the first fold of the waving flag.
4. Extend a short, curved, diagonal line downward from the bottom corner of the flag. Connect it to the flag’s bottom using another short curved line. This curved triangle shape indicates a fold in the flag.
5. Extend two curved lines from the flag, one from the curved triangle and the other from just below the top corner. Connect the lines using a curved line, enclosing the remainder of the waving flag.
6. Using two slightly curved lines, enclose a square shape at the top corner of the flag, near the flagpole.
7. Next, draw parallel curved lines across the flag. The American flag features thirteen red and white bars representing the thirteen original colonies, so you should include twelve lines. Don’t forget to add a couple of stripes to the visible edge of the flag’s fold.
8. Complete the stripes on the final portion of the waving flag, again using twelve curved lines to create the thirteen stripes.
9. In the square, draw rows of small stars. The American flag has fifty stars representing the fifty states. Rows alternate between having five or six stars each.
10. Color your American flag. The star field is dark blue with white stars. The stripes are white and red, with red bars on the top and bottom. Many flag poles are made of either brown wood or gold or grey metal.
Watch 'How to Draw ​the ​TARDIS' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​the ​TARDIS
The Complete Tardis Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a vertical rectangle. This forms the basic outline of the TARDIS.
2. ​Beneath the original rectangle, draw a narrow, horizontal rectangle. This forms the base of the TARDIS.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​On top of the original rectangle, draw two narrow, horizontal rectangles, forming the top of the TARDIS. Outline the ship’s doors by drawing a slightly smaller rectangle within the original rectangle.
4. ​​​​​​​​Just above the doors, draw a horizontal rectangle, with a slightly smaller rectangle inside it. This forms the ship’s sign.
5.​​ ​​Within the frame of the doorway, draw two narrow, vertical rectangles, side by side. These indicate the individual doors.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​At the top of each door, draw a small rectangle, nearly square in shape. Indicate the crossbars of the window by drawing one horizontal line and two vertical lines across each.
7. ​​​Detail the doors by drawing three small rectangles down the length of each door, identical in size and shape to the rectangles that formed the windows.
8.​​​ ​​Draw a handle on the door. Do so using a very narrow, vertical rectangle, placed between the decorative rectangle and the side of the door. Draw a small circle beneath it. This is the lock that the Doctor and others use to access the TARDIS. Draw a very small horizontal rectangle on the top of the TARDIS, and a square above it. Draw horizontal and vertical lines across the square, giving it a checkerboard appearance. Draw another rectangle on top of the square. Then, use a curved line to enclose a bell shape atop the square. Draw a small circle at the very top.
9.​​ ​Finally, add the words “POLICE BOX” and “PUBLIC CALL” in capital letters to the uppermost sign, and the words “FREE FOR USE OF PUBLIC PULL TO OPEN” to the door.
10. ​​​​​ ​Color your TARDIS. The TARDIS is usually blue in color, as were Britain’s traditional police boxes.
Looking for more sci-fi fun? Check out our other cosmic drawing tutorials, such as Darth Vader, a stormtrooper helmet, an alien, and the moon.
Watch 'How to Draw the Elf on the Shelf' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ the Elf on the Shelf
The Complete Elf on the Shelf Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the elf’s head. Start with a long, curved line to outline the shape of the face and jaw. Use a “C” shaped line to form the ear, and another curved line to continue the hairline. Use another long curved line to craft the top of the head. Then, use a series of curved lines, meeting in points, to outline the shape of the hair upon the forehead.
2. Draw a curved line beneath the head to enclose the neck. Extend two curved lines outward from the neck. Then, connect the lines using a zigzag line, forming the collar of the elf’s garment.
3. Extend a long, curved line from one side of the collar. Double the line back upon itself until it almost reaches the collar. This is the elf’s arm. Then, draw a curved line across the end of the arm to indicate the hand.
4. Draw two long curved lines from the opposite side of the collar. Allow them to meet the first arm so that it appears that the two arms overlap. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the arm to form the hand.
5. Draw a curved line descending downward from each of the elf’s arms to begin outlining the torso.
6. Use curved lines to sketch in the bent legs, filling the space between the torso and the arms. Beneath the hands, extend two curved lines that double back upon themselves. Band the shapes with curved lines to differentiate the legs and feet.
7. Use a long, curved line to enclose a curved shape on top of the elf’s head. Above this, enclose a curved triangle. This forms the elf’s pointed hat.
8. Detail the elf’s smiling face. Use curved lines to craft the mouth, nose, inner ear, and eyebrows. Use circles for the blushing cheeks, and ovals for the eyes. Detail the pupils, and use small curved lines to indicate the eyelashes.
9. Give the elf a shelf on which to sit. Use straight lines to draw an angled rectangle beneath him. Draw short lines down from each corner, and connect them using long straight lines, giving the shelf a three-dimensional appearance.
Color your elf on the shelf. His outfit is typically red with white details.
Check out our character drawing guides, where you’ll find Santa Claus, the Grinch, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw ​the Statue of Liberty' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​​the Statue of Liberty
The Complete Statue of Liberty Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​You will begin by drawing a three dimensional figure that resembles the tower of a castle. Place two slanted squares side by side, sharing one side. Draw narrow rectangles above and beneath them, also sharing one side. For the top, use short, straight, connected lines to form a serrated edge. Each “tooth” of this edge should be shaped like a tiny square. This structure is the base on which the Statue of Liberty stands.
2. ​​​​​​​​​Above the serrated edge, continue drawing narrow rectangular blocks that share a centrally located edge. Notice that every other layer is thinner and slightly longer than those on either side of it.
3. ​​Add detail to the statue’s base. On the large bottom section, draw horizontal and vertical rectangles. On the uppermost small rectangles, sketch small squares.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin to sketch Lady Liberty’s head and garment. Draw a rounded shape for the head, including a small irregularity to indicate the ear. Draw the neck using three curved lines. Then, use a series of curved lines to form the sleeve.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Use additional curved lines to sketch the draping folds of Lady Liberty’s garment.
6.​ ​​Use long, curved lines to attach the statue to the base, forming the bottom folds of the robe. Then, sketch in the tablet using a narrow rectangle and straight lines.
7. ​​​Use long, curved lines to sketch the extended arm, and small ovals for the curled fingers. Use curved lines to craft the bottom of the torch. Draw a curved rectangle for the top of the torch, with a horizontal line across it. Shade the top section, then sketch a flame using short, curved lines that meet in sharp points.
8.​​​ ​​Use curved lines to outline the hair, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw a curved line atop the hair to indicate the base of the crown. Then, use straight lines to form the narrow triangles that decorate the crown.
9.​​ ​Detail Lady Liberty’s face. Shade circular shapes for the eyes, and use curved lines to form the nose and mouth.
10. ​​​Color the Statue of Liberty. This statue is a unique shade of sea green due to the aged patina of the copper from which it is made!
Did you know? The artist who crafted the Statue of Liberty also designed the Eiffel Tower. Learn how to draw this unique landmark.
Watch 'How to Draw a Baby' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Baby
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a large circle. This circle forms the base for the head.
Beneath the circle, draw a curved line to outline the jaw.
Erase the guide line from the head.
Beneath the head, enclose a curved cylindrical shape using three curved lines that meet at rounded points. This will form the baby’s body.
Draw a small oval on each side of the head to form the ears. On top of the head, draw a tuft of hair using a curved shape, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points.
Erase the guide lines from the ears and hair.
Add detail by drawing a curved line within each ear. Use several curved lines, meeting at jagged points, to add detail to the hair.
Outline the arm using a series of curved lines. Note how the lines come together at an angle to form the bend of the elbow.
Repeat this process on the opposite side, forming a mirror image.
Erase the guide lines from the arms.
Draw a curved line across the stomach, and curved lines upwards from the elbows.
Erase the guide lines from the torso.
Draw the hand using a series of curved lines. You may use simple lines to outline the hand itself, and “U” shaped lines to form the fingers.
Repeat this process to draw the other hand.
Draw a short, curved line between the baby’s thumbs to outline the bottom of the diaper, and add detail to the diaper by drawing curved lines of varying lengths.
Draw the legs using a series of curved lines. The top of each leg may consist of one line; the bottom should consist of at least two lines, joining at an angle to indicate the bend of the knee.
Draw the feet. Outline the sides of the feet using curved lines, and use overlapping “U” shaped lines to form the toes.
For each eye, draw a large oval. Add detail by drawing a short, curved line below each eye and a longer, thicker curved line above. Then, draw an elongated, narrow teardrop shape above each eye to form the eyebrows.
Enclose a large oval within each eye using a curved line. Then, add sparkle to the eyes by drawing two smaller ovals in each. Shade between the large and smaller ovals. Add rosy cheeks by drawing a flattened oval beneath each eye. Draw a dot to indicate the nose, and use two curved lines to draw the smiling mouth. Finally, draw a long, curved line across the stomach to add depth to the drawing.
Color your baby.
Watch 'How to Draw a Baseball Player' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Baseball Player
The Complete Baseball Player Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by sketching the player’s face. Use a “C” shaped line to form the top of the head, a “U” shaped line for the nose, and an “L” shaped line for the chin. Then, use a short, straight line to form the mouth.
2. Sketch the player’s baseball cap. Outline the cap on top of the head and across the forehead, using a curved line to outline a rounded shape. Then, enclose the shape of the cap’s bill using another curved line.
3. Use a series of curved lines to outline the player’s hair. Notice the “U” shaped line that forms the ear.
4. Use curved lines to outline the player’s shirt. Notice how the near shoulder overlaps the player’s chin. Note, too, the overlapping of lines to indicate cinched material beneath each arm.
5. Erase guide lines from the hat and shirt.
6. Extend two short lines downward from the shirt or torso. Connect them using a long, curved line, to form the top of the pants. Then, sketch the arms and hands. For the first arm, use two curved lines. Enclose the hand at the end using an additional curved line. For the remaining arm, use one long, curved line, as the top of the arm is hidden by the first. Enclose the shape of the hand, using “U” shaped lines to form the fingers. Draw pairs of curved lines across the wrists to form the wristbands.
7. Sketch the pant leg using long, curved lines. Note the short lines indicating folds in the fabric at the hip and knee. From the bottom of the pants, extend two short lines to form the ankle, and enclose the irregular shape of the shoe beneath it. Detail the shoe with curved lines.
8. Outline the remaining pant leg using long, curved lines. Then, extend two short lines to form the ankle, and enclose the irregular shape of the shoe. Note that the peanut-shaped sole of the shoe is visible.
9. Detail your baseball player. Use curved lines to stripe the pants and sleeve, and to contour the uniform. Use a long, narrow “U” shaped line to craft the baseball bat, and detail it using curved lines.
10. Color your baseball player to match your favorite team.
Check out our people drawing guides to fill your dugout with more players, or our object drawing guides to stock up on equipment.
Watch 'How to Draw a Basketball Player' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Basketball Player
The Complete Basketball Player Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by sketching the basketball player’s head. First, draw a curved line, like a half circle. This forms the top of the head. Then, use a “C” shaped line to form the ear. Finally, use a long curved line to outline the face and enclose the figure. Notice how the line forms a gentle point to indicate the chin.
2. Extend two curved lines below the head to form the neck. Enclose the neck using a “V” shaped line to indicate the neck of the shirt. Then, use long, curved lines to enclose the shape of the torso. Notice the short lines near the neck that indicate ripples in the fabric.
3. Next, begin sketching the shorts. Use a long curved line to enclose a narrow, rounded, rectangular shape just below the torso, forming the belt or waistband. Then, use long lines to outline the shorts. A “C” shaped line encloses the figure, and short curved lines indicate folds in the fabric.
4. Use long curved lines to outline the leg, extending from the bottom of the shorts. Enclose the bottom of the leg with a “V” shaped line, which will also form the top of the shoe. Below the “V,” draw a narrow oval to form the bottom of the shoe. Connect each end of the oval to the sides of the “V” using curved lines.
5. Use short lines to enclose the visible portion of the far leg of the shorts. Then, use curved lines to enclose the leg and shoe. Notice the broken line that indicates the sole of the shoe.
6. Draw the basketball player’s arm, erasing guide lines as necessary. Draw a partial circle to form the opening of the sleeve. Then, outline the arm using long, curved lines. Note the nearly rectangular shape of the armband just above the elbow. Use long, narrow “U” shaped lines to craft each finger, fully enclosing the hand.
7. Draw the remaining arm. Use long curved lines to outline the arm, and complete the hand using long, narrow “U” shaped lines.
8. Detail the basketball player’s face and hair. Draw a wavy line, like a series of connected “U”s, to form the hairline. Texture the hair with curved lines, and enclose an irregular shape to form the scrunchy. Use long lines to enclose the shape of the ponytail. Use curved lines to indicate the eyebrows, nose, mouth, and lower lip. For the eyes, shade small circles within teardrop shapes.
9. Use curved lines to draw a stripe down the side of the jersey and shorts. Draw a set of horizontal curved lines across each leg, and connect them to the shoes using vertical curved lines. These form the socks. Give her a shadow using straight lines beneath her. Finally, use a circle and curved lines to draw the basketball.
10. Color your basketball player to match your favorite team.
Watch 'How to Draw a Boy' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Boy
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by using a series of curved lines to outline the face and jaw.
Draw the hair crossing over the forehead by connecting short, curved lines at sharp points.
Use a long, curved line to outline each ear, completely enclosing the face. Within each ear, use curved lines to add detail.
Extend curved lines from the ears, up and over the face to outline the hair. At the crown, or back, of the head, draw tufts of hair using short, curved lines that meet at a point.
Extend two short, curved lines downward from the face to form the neck. Draw a “U” shaped line from one side of the neck to the other, outlining the collar of the shirt.
Extend a short, curved line from each side of the neck to form the boy’s shoulders. Then, enclose a curved rectangle shape below the shoulders to form the boy’s torso.
Draw sleeves extending from the shoulders. To draw the near sleeve, extend a set of curved, parallel lines and connect them using a curved line. For the far sleeve, use two curved lines to enclose a triangle shape.
Draw the arm using a series of curved lines. Note how the lines meet at an angle to form the bend of the elbow, and how the lines get closer together near the end of the arm.
Erase the guide lines from the shirt and arm.
Draw the other arm using curved lines, again noting the elbow and the tapering of the arm.
Draw the hands. Use a series of curved lines to outline each hand. You may use elongated “U” shaped lines to form the fingers. Don’t forget the curved lines that add detail to the palms.
Detail the shirt. Draw a curved line parallel to the end of each sleeve, and a “U” shaped line along the collar. Then, draw wavy lines across the torso to give the shirt a playful pattern.
Draw the leg using curved lines. Note the detail of the zipper, and the curved lines that indicate crinkled folds at the bottom of the pant leg.
Repeat this process to draw the other leg, again noting the detail at the bottom of the leg.
Draw a shoe using curved lines for the top and bottom, and a straight line for the back of the shoe. Draw another curved line parallel to the bottom of the shoe to indicate the sole.
Repeat this process to draw the second shoe, creating a mirror image.
Use a short, straight line and two curved lines to enclose each eyebrow.
Outline each eye using a curved line for the cheek and an upside down “U” shaped line to enclose the shape. Within each eye, draw a large circle. Then, draw two smaller circles within the first. Shade between the small and large circles to indicate the pupil.
Draw the nose using a small curved line, and a dot to indicate the nostril. Give the boy a smile by drawing a large, curved line that intersects a small, curved line at the cheek. Draw a small curve beneath the mouth to indicate the chin.
Color your cartoon boy.
Watch 'How to Draw a Braid' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Braid
The Complete Braid Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will outline the head to which the braid is attached.
2. Draw a long curved line across one side of the circle, allowing the line to pass outside the circle. Then, draw a shorter curved line from the other side of the circle.
3. Begin the braid by drawing a set of curved lines extending from the lines drawn in the previous step. Curve the lines toward one another until they almost meet. Then, draw the next section of the braid. Extend the next pair of lines from the middle of the previous lines. Then, repeat this step again.
4. Continue drawing pairs of lines that overlap the previous lines and curve toward one another. On the final set, allow the lines to meet at a point, enclosing the form of the braid.
4. Continue drawing pairs of lines that overlap the previous lines and curve toward one another. On the final set, allow the lines to meet at a point, enclosing the form of the braid.
5. Using a curved line, enclose a rounded rectangular shape at the end of the braid. This represents the hair tie that prevents the braid from unraveling. Then, draw the tuft of hair at the end of the braid. Extend two long, curved lines from the hair tie, and allow them to meet at a point. Then, detail the tuft by drawing a few short, curved lines.
6. Erase the guide lines left from the original circle, leaving a clean outline of the hair.
7. Outline the person’s face.Draw a curved line to indicate the flow of the hair at the front of the face. Then, enclose an irregular shape using a long, curved line. Note how the line forms the chin, neck, and neckline of the garment. Draw a curved line crossing into the hair to indicate the ear.
8. Erase guide lines from the hair and enclose the space between the brow and ear using a short, curved line.
9. Detail the hair. Draw a short, curved line down the middle of each braid segment, further indicating the contours of the hairstyle. Draw a few curved lines at the base of the braid to add further detail.
10. What colors will you use in your drawing? Is the wearer of this braid you, a friend, or a fairy tale princess? The choice is yours. Continue to improve your drawing skills by checking out our other fun and easy tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Ninja' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Ninja
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a curved line. Beneath this line, draw a second curved line, connected to the first just before the ends. This will form the ninja’s face.
Draw another, longer curved line just above the first. This will form the top of the ninja’s head.
Connect the previous line to the first using short, curved lines.
Draw another curved line across the bottom of the figure. This forms the bottom half of the ninja’s disguise.
Using curved lines, enclose a curved rectangle shape beneath the head. This will form the ninja’s body.
Draw a curved line below the body. This will form the ninja’s belt.
Draw the legs using a series of curved lines. The legs will extend outward from the body in opposite directions.
Extend a set of parallel, curved lines from the bottom of each leg.
Below the parallel lines, draw the shoes. Each shoe consists of a series of curved lines. The bottom of the shoe should be relatively flat, with a rounded, overlapping curve on top of the toe.
Draw a curved line across the bottom of each shoe to indicate the sole. Add detail to the top of the shoe by drawing a small rectangle.
Extend two curved lines from the shoulder to form the arm. Connect the lines using a short, curved line.
Extend a curved line from the opposite shoulder.
Extend two short lines from the first arm, connecting them with a curved line. Extend the second arm using a curved line, forming the elbow. Draw another curved line to indicate the end of the sleeve, and extend two short lines as on the first arm.
Draw the hands. Use long, curved lines and short, “U” shaped lines to draw the pointing hand. To draw the fist, outline the back of the hand with a long, curved line, and use overlapping “U” shaped lines to form the fingers.
To draw the eyes, begin with two large teardrop shapes. Within each teardrop, draw a circle. Draw curved shapes above the eyes to form eyebrows. Draw a curved line to indicate the nose, and short lines to add detail under the eyes.
Draw the ninja’s swords strapped to his back. Draw parallel lines extending diagonally from each shoulder, and connect them using a short, curved line. Extend three straight, parallel lines diagonally from the each side of the lower back as well. Join them using short, straight lines that meet in a point to form the blade of the sword.
Draw short, curved lines across the handles of the swords.
Add detail to the ninja’s shirt. Draw parallel lines from the neck, downward across the stomach. Connect the lines using short lines that meet in a point. Then, draw an “X” pattern between the parallel lines.
Shade the pupils of the eyes, leaving a small circle unshaded. Add the detail of fabric to the ninja’s disguise using long, slightly curved lines.
Color your ninja.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cartoon Princess' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Princess
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a curved line to outline the face. Note how the line is pointed at the bottom to indicate the chin.
Draw two curved lines extending from the face, outlining the neck and upper portions of the arms.
Extend a set of parallel lines from one side of the image, outlining the arm. Note the bend and slight overlap of lines that indicates the elbow.
Draw the hand using a series of curved lines. Draw several long, narrow, “U” shaped lines to form the fingers, and curved lines to connect to the wrist and detail the palm.
Draw a set of parallel, curved lines on the opposite side, forming the arm. Again, note the bend of the elbow and narrowing of the wrist.
Draw the other hand using a series of narrow “U” shaped lines and curved lines.
From beneath the arms, extend two curved lines downward to outline the body. Connect the lines at the bottom using a curved line. Enclose the top of the dress by drawing an “M” shaped line.
Draw a necklace for the princess. At the base of the neck, draw a series of small, connected circles.
Draw a curved line from one shoulder to the other, between the necklace and the top of the dress. Draw a wavy line across each wrist, erasing guide lines as necessary.
Draw two long, curved lines to outline the skirt of the dress. Connect the lines at the bottom using a long, wavy line.
Detail the dress by drawing a curved line across the stomach, and long, curved lines down the length of the skirt.Extend some lines downward from the top of the skirt, others up from the bottom. These lines indicated folds in the fabric.
Draw a long, curved line enclosing the top of the face and extending beyond it.Draw another long, curved line from above the head to below the arm. These lines outline the princess’s long, flowing hair.
Continue the line from the top of the head to beneath the opposite arm. Connect both lines to the body using short, curved lines that meet in points.
Draw a crown by first drawing a curved line across the top of the head, then two curved lines meeting in a point just above it.
Decorate the crown with jewels. Draw a teardrop shape above the point of the crown, and an oval accompanied by two circles within it.Add detail to the hair by drawing curved lines down the length of it.
Draw the eyebrows using two curved lines each.
Draw each ear by placing two curved lines between the hair and the face. Outline each eye using two curved lines.
Draw a circle at the bottom of each ear to indicate earrings.Draw a curved line above each eye, and a circle within.Draw two small curved lines across the bottom of each eye, allowing them to meet at a point.Shade above these lines.
Enclose a wisp of hair beneath the crown using two curved lines that meet in a point.Indicated the nose by drawing two diagonal lines between the eyes, and a small curved line in the middle of the face.Draw the mouth using two curved lines, and a curved line beneath it to indicate the chin.
Color your beautiful princess.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Demon' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Demon
The Complete Demon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the head.
2. ​​Draw two long, curved lines extending downward from the head. This will outline the body.
3. ​​Enclose the body, legs, and feet using a long, curved line. Note how each foot ends in a rounded point, and the curve of the legs rises to form an irregular half circle.
4. ​​Draw the arm using a series of curved lines. Draw one long curve to outline the top of the arm; then, draw a shorter, upside down “U” shaped line to form the inside of the hand. Complete the outside of the hand with another short, curved line, and use a final curve to connect the hand to the body, fully enclosing the arm.
5. ​​Draw the other arm on the opposite side, in a similar manner to the first. Use long, curved lines to outline the arm, as well as shorter curved lines and a “U” shaped line to form the hand.
6. ​​​Give the little guy some clothing. Draw a curved line across the abdomen and the top of each leg. Above the garment, draw a tiny circle to indicate the belly button.
7. ​​​Extend two parallel, “S” shaped lines from one side, forming a tail. Enclose the end of the tail by drawing a triangle around it.
8. ​Enclose pointed ears on each side of the head, using one curved line for each. Detail the inside of the ear using connected, curved lines. Above the ears, draw horns. For each horn, draw two curved lines, forming a slanted triangle shape.
9. ​​Draw two long, curved, connected lines to enclose the snarling mouth. Draw two slanted, upside down triangles dangling from the top of the mouth, indicating teeth. Draw a curve along the bottom of the mouth to form the tongue, and draw a short squiggle to add depth to each corner of the mouth. To draw the eyes, first use two curved lines to form the brows. Enclose a half circle under each.
10. ​​​Color your character. Traditionally, demons and devils are often depicted as being red in color.
Watch 'How to Draw a Face' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Face
The Complete Face Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle to outline the basic shape of the face.
2. Draw a curved line beneath the circle, from one side to the other. Note how the curve deepens at its bottom-most point, forming a blunt point. This outlines the person’s chin.
3. Erase the guide lines from the face.
4. Draw guide lines across the face, as these will help you to place the face’s other features. To do this, draw a straight, vertical line down the middle of the face. Then, draw two straight, horizontal lines intersecting the vertical line. These will aid in the placement of the eyes. Draw a short, straight, horizontal guide line between the primary horizontal guide lines and the chin. This line will help you to place the nose. Finally, draw a curved line beneath the nose guide line to begin formation of the mouth.
5. Above the uppermost horizontal guide line, draw eyebrows using curved lines that connect in a rounded point on one side and a sharp point on the other. Draw a curved line above the guide line for the nose, and enclose the lip above the curved guideline for the mouth, using a curved line. Below the mouth, draw two curved lines connected in an “X” shape to indicate the dimple of the chin.
6. Draw the eyes within the space enclosed by the horizontal guide lines. For each eye, use two curved lines to enclose a rounded shape with the lines meeting in points on each side.
7. Detail the eyes with pupils. Within each eye, draw a circle, and a smaller circle within it. Shade between the circles. Next, draw the ears. For each ear, Enclose a rounded shape on the side of the head using a curved line. Detail the ear by enclosing a smaller rounded shape within the first.
8. Draw the hair. Enclose a larger rounded shape above the top of the head, using a long, curved line. Draw a curved line from the ear to the vertical guide line. Repeat on the opposite side, forming a mirror image. Draw a series of curved lines extending below each ear, allowing some of the lines to meet in jagged points. Enclose the hair by rejoining the lines to the side of the chin.
9. Erase the guide lines from the face. Note that a portion of the vertical guide line remains to form the bridge of the nose. Add detail to the hair by drawing curved lines of various lengths.
10. Color your eyes. In humans, typical eye colors include light and dark brown, blue, green, grey, and at times even violet.
Watch 'How to Draw a Fairy' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Fairy
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline the shape of the head.
Draw a curved line through the circle to outline the shape of the chin and ear.
Erase the guide lines left by the original circle.
Extend a long and short line from the head to form the neck and arm. Draw a short line parallel to the long line to form the underside of the arm.
Extend two curved lines from the opposite side of the neck to form the other arm.
Draw two parallel curved lines in continuation of each arm. Note how the lines are curved inward at the elbow and the wrist.
Draw a hand at the end of each arm. Use narrow, overlapping “U” shaped lines to form the fingers, and detail the palm with short lines.
Draw a “U” shaped line around the neck to form the collar of the clothing. Extend a curved line downward from each shoulder to outline the torso.
Draw two parallel curved lines at the bottom of the torso, forming a belt. Extend a curved line outward from each side of the belt. Then, connect these lines using a long, wavy line, forming a skirt.
Detail the dress. Draw wavy, scalloped lines along the neck and sleeves of the dress. Draw a wavy line along the bottom of the dress, then short, curved lines extending upward from this line and downward from the belt. This adds texture to the folds of the fabric.
Draw the legs. Extend an “L” shaped line from the skirt, forming a leg bent at the knee. Draw a line parallel with each section of the “L” to outline the other side of the leg. Then, extend two parallel, slightly curved lines downward from the knee of the bent leg. This outlines the far leg.
Give the fairy some shoes. Enclose the bottom of each leg using a curved line. Draw a flower shape on the toe of each shoe by connecting small “U” shaped lines. Draw a curved line from the flower to the ankle to form the top of the shoe.
Draw ribbons on each wrist. Draw three curved lines across the arm, then extend two sets of curved lines from each. Connect each set of lines using two straight lines. Then, use straight, parallel lines, to draw a wand in one hand. Enclose the wand on the bottom by drawing a small circle.
Draw the hair. Use a long, curved line to outline the hair from the top of the head to the shoulder. Around the face and at the end of the hair, enclose the shape using several curved lines of various lengths. Allow the lines to meet in points. Draw curving lines down the length of the hair to add detail.
Draw a star at the top of the wand, surrounded by dots of fairy dust.
Decorate the dress with small stars and circles.
Draw a circle for each eye. Within the eye, draw a small oval and a curved line across the bottom; shade between the oval and the line. Draw curved lines above each eye, forming the eyelid and eyebrow.
Draw a wide “U” shaped line to form the smiling mouth. Draw curved lines beneath the mouth to dimple the chin, and use another curved line to form the nose. Draw a “U” shaped line within the ear to add detail, and draw a star-shaped flower behind the ear.
Draw the wings by extending long, curved lines from the head and lower back, allowing them to meet in a point. Draw a smaller, parallel shape within each wing. Draw rounded wings beneath these using curved lines.
Color your fairy.
Watch 'How to Draw a Football Player' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Football Player
The Complete Football Player Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an irregular shape, like a rounded rectangle with a bulge on each side. This outlines the opening in the football player’s helmet. Draw a curved line from one side of the opening to the other, parallel to the top of the opening; use another curved line to do the same on the bottom of the opening. Then, draw a curved line like a half circle above this figure, indicating the top of the helmet’s outer shell.
2. Draw a curved line beneath the helmet, outlining the face mask. Then, draw several pairs of lines across the opening of the face mask.
3. Draw a long, curved line downward from the helmet, outlining the player’s back. Use three curved lines to craft the sleeve, and additional curved lines to outline the arm, noting the bend in the elbow. Use long, narrow “U” shaped lines to outline the fingers and enclose the hand. Sketch a wristband using two curved lines.
4. Draw in the rest of the player’s shirt. Use a “V” to form the neck, and rectangular shapes to indicate the number on the front of the uniform. Use curved lines to enclose the shape of the shirt. Note the short lines that add detail around the neck and under the arms.
5. Use two curved lines to outline the remaining arm, and another line to indicate the wristband. Then, draw the football. Use two curved lines that meet in gentle points to outline the ball, and band it with two sets of parallel lines. Draw curved lines parallel to the outline of the ball to add texture. Note the “U” shaped lines that form fingers at the top of the ball.
6. Use long, curved lines to outline the pants. Note the short curved lines that indicate folds in the fabric.
7. Detail the helmet and face. Stripe the helmet with two sets of parallel lines. Draw the nose and eyebrows using curved lines. Sketch the eyes using a shaded circle within a larger circle.
8. Extend a pair of curved lines downward from each pant leg. These lines form the player’s lower legs.
9. Use a curved line at the bottom of each foot to enclose the irregular shape of the player’s shoes.
10. Color your football player. What are your favorite team’s colors? Then, round out your team with more tutorials from our people drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Fist' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ ​​​a Fist
The Complete Fist Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​You will begin by sketching shapes to indicate the curvature of the thumb. First, draw a pair of straight, diagonal, parallel lines. Connect these using curved lines on each end. Next, extend a set of parallel lines from the top of the first set. This time, though, set the straight lines on the opposite diagonal. One line should be longer than the other. Connect them using a curved line. Finally, from the tips of these lines, extend two more straight lines. These lines are not parallel, but slant toward each other. Connect them using a curved line.
2. ​​Outline the hand a wrist using straight lines. Notice the sharp angle to one side of the thumb, and the length of the lines that form it.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​​Now, you will flesh out the hand and thumb, softening the lines and angles. Sketch curved lines on each side of the hand. Notice where they extend outside the straight lines, and where they rest within. Do the same for the thumb, noting the curved lines that indicate the folds of skin on the underside of the thumb, where the knuckle is bent.
4. ​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the hand and thumb.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​Begin to sketch the folded fingers. Use long, curved lines to enclose the shapes.
6. ​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the fingers.
7. ​​​​​​Detail the thumb and fingers. Enclose a fingernail on the tip of the thumb. Use short curved lines to note the folds at the knuckles of the thumb and fingers, and at the base of the thumb.
8.​​​ ​​Use a long, curved line to sketch in the third finger. Indicate a knuckle using a short, curved line.
9.​​ ​Enclose the fourth finger using a long, curved line. Erase remaining guide lines from the fingers. Detail the wrist using short, curved lines.
10. ​Color you fist. Would you like to flex your muscles and draw more human features? Check out our selection of people drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Hand' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Hand
The Complete Hand Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the palm of the hand.
2. Draw the fingers. For each finger, draw a pair of straight lines, allowing the lines to converge slightly at the tip. Note that the fingers are of different lengths, the thumb and pinkie fingers being the shortest. Enclose each finger using a curved line.
3. Draw a curved line between each finger, crossing over into the palm. Extend the line between the thumb and first fingers to outline the curved shape of the thumb.
4. Erase the guide lines from the hand.
5. Draw a curved line across the palm, extending from the thumb. Draw another curved line beneath the pinkie finger. These lines add detail to the fleshy parts of the palm.
6. Draw a curved line beneath the pinkie, cleaning up the outline of the side of the hand. Draw two curved lines beneath the palm, forming the wrist.
7. Erase the guide lines from the hand. Note that the palm now opens up into the wrist.
8. Draw curved lines across the fingers, two across the thumb and three across each finger. These lines indicate the joints of the fingers.
9. Draw a pair of curved lines across the palm beneath the fingers, further detailing the palm. Draw a vertical curved line across the wrist, indicating the tendon found there.
10. Color your hand.
Watch 'How to Draw a Hockey Player' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Hockey Player
The Complete Hockey Player Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines to outline the hockey player’s chin and ear.
2. Use a curved line to connect the ear to the opposite side of the face. Continue the line across the top of the face to fully enclose the irregular shape of the hockey helmet. Draw curved lines across the helmet to detail its contours. Then, use a curved line to enclose the rectangular shape of the face mask.
3. Draw a curved line below the ear and chin. Then, draw two long curved lines to form the arm. Connect them at the end, and use shorter curved lines to detail the curves of the garment at the wrist and elbow.
4. Outline the hockey player’s back and torso using curved lines.
5. Use a series of curved lines to outline the hockey player’s opposite arm and glove. Then, use short curved lines to detail the folds in the fabric.
6. Use a series of curved lines to outline the hockey player’s glove. Notice the overlapping lines that form the thumb and fingers.
7. Extend a set of straight, parallel lines from one glove to the other. Allow the lines to extend past the lower glove, erasing guide lines as necessary. Use a curved line to enclose a rounded rectangular shape at the bottom, fully enclosing the hockey stick.
8. Use a series of curved lines to outline the hockey player’s pants, legs, socks, and the tops of his ice skates. Notice how the pants and socks are wider than other parts of the leg. Also note the details of the uniform, such as the banding between the pants and socks, and the sole and tongue of the shoes.
9. Add the finishing details to your hockey player. Use curved lines to create the blades on the bottom of his skates. Use curved lines to detail the jersey, and draw his face deep in concentration. Finally, draw a small oval in front of his hockey stick and band it to create the hockey puck.
Color your hockey player to match the colors of your favorite team.
You’ll find plenty of other athletes to draw among our selection of people drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Human Heart' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a ​Human Heart
The Complete Human Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by sketching a rounded, lumpy, irregular figure. It should look a bit like the shape of Africa. This outlines the lower chamber of the heart, which includes both the left and right ventricles.
2. Next you will draw the aortic arch. Extend two curved lines upwards from the irregular shape. The lines should follow a roughly parallel path, with the lower line being slightly shorter. Connect the lines at the end using a short curved line.
3. Next, you will draw the pulmonary trunk, as well as the left and right pulmonary arteries. Draw a short wavy line within the original figure, then it extend it up to meet the aortic arch. On the other side, extend a long curved line, ending at a small oval. Connect this oval to the aortic arch using a curved line that crosses over the end of the arch.
4. Erase guide lines from the heart.
5. Next, draw the right atrium and the superior vena cava. For the atrium, enclose an irregular form at the junction of the ventricle and the aortic arch. Above this, draw a narrow vertical oval along the arch, and connect this to the atrium using a curved line. This is the superior vena cava.
6. Using a series of curved lines, draw the left coronary artery crossing the ventricle. This artery should resemble the branching of a tree, with the lines getting progressively shorter and ending in points. Erase guide lines as necessary.
7. Draw major arteries extending from the aortic arch. Ror each, extend sets of parallel curved lines, and connect them at the top. Cause one to branch using a “V” shaped line.
8. Draw the left atrium and pulmonary veins. Enclose an irregular shape for the atrium. Extend a curved line upwards from this, and then draw the veins using pairs of parallel, curved lines. Connect them at the ends using curved lines or ovals.
9. Detail and texture the heart using short lines. Allow some to branch, indicating veins.
10. In scientific drawings, portions of the heart carrying oxygenated blood are typically depicted in red, while those carrying blood to the lungs for re-oxygenation are shaded purple or blue.
Want to draw the other kind of heart – you know, the symbol of love? Check out all of our heart drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a ​Knight' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​a ​Knight
The Complete Knight Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​Begin drawing the helmet using a circle. Within the circle, draw two curved lines. Extend a set of straight, parallel lines downward from the curved lines. Then, enclose a curved square shape alongside each of these lines. This creates the faceplate of the helmet.
2. ​​​​​​​​​Enclose the armor’s breastplate beneath the helmet. Use a series of curved lines, meeting at rounded corners. Notice how the armor curves inward just above the waist.
3. ​​Next, you will draw the “skirt” of the armor, called the tasset. To draw the tasset, extend two slightly curved lines downward from the breastplate. Then, connect them using a curved line.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Next, draw the shield. Begin the large shield by drawing a curved line across the breastplate, extending it beyond the shoulder. Then, extend a pair of slightly curved lines downward from each end. From these lines, angle a pair of straight lines inward until they meet in a point.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the shield.
6.​ ​​Decorate the shield by drawing diagonal lines across it, crossing in the center at a perpendicular angle. Then, draw the shoulders of the armor. Draw a curved line, like a half circle. Then, extend a short line from each end. Connect these lines using a longer curved line.
7. ​​​Use a series of curved lines to sketch the arm and fingers. Draw a curved line across the arm to distinguish the gauntlet, or armored glove. Then, draw the legs. Outline the legs and feet using curved lines. Draw a diamond shape across each knee, and two parallel, horizontal lines behind it. Erase guide lines as necessary. Draw another set of curved lines across the ankles.
8.​​​ ​​Erase guide lines from the helmet and shoulders.
9.​​ ​​​​​​​Draw a sword in the knight’s hand, erasing guide lines as necessary. Use a pair of lines for the hilt and a circle for the pommel. Beneath the hand, draw the guard using a narrow rectangle. Extend three lines to form the blade, meeting at a sharp point. Detail the breastplate and tasset with curved, horizontal lines. Decorate the shield using rectangles and diamonds. Finally, detail the helmet. Enclose a rounded shape on top, and extend two curved lines that meet in a sharp point. Sketch horizontal and vertical lines across the helmet.
10. ​​​Color your knight, and then expand the scene using our other medieval drawing guides. Give him a castle, a faithful steed, and a dragon to fight.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​ ​Leprechaun' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​ ​Leprechaun
The Complete Leprechaun Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will outline the leprechaun’s face.
2. Sketch a curved line roughly in the shape of the letter “U” across the circle. This line adds detail to the shape of the face.
3. Using short curved lines, sketch the jagged edges of the beard and tufts of hair near the ears.
4. Draw the leprechaun’s jacket. Notice the long lines that form closure of the jacket, and the shorter lines used to shape the sleeves.
5. Next, draw the leprechaun’s pants. Across the stomach, draw parallel curved lines to form the belt. Then, use longer, nearly straight lines to outline the legs of the pants. Connect the pant legs at the bottom using short, curved lines.
6. ​​​​Detail the shirt. Draw a curved line, gently pointed in two places. Then, draw another curved line, also gently pointed, to intersect the first. Draw a button in one of the points. On the belt, draw a rectangle within a rectangle to form the belt buckle.
7. Use elongate, “U” shaped lines, as well as curved lines, to form the hand. Extend a pair of short lines from each pant leg. Use a long, curved line to enclose the form of the shoe. Notice the curve that forms the tongue of the shoe, and the overlapping that distinguishes the shoe’s heel. Finally, ring the legs with horizontal lines to indicate the socks.
8. Erase guide lines from the face, then draw the hat and ears. For the brim of the hat, extend a long, curved line from one side of the head. Bring it over the head and attach it at a similar point on the opposite side. Draw the top of the hat by enclosing a similar shape, using a shorter curved line. For the ears, draw a steep, slightly curved triangle on each side of the head. Then, draw a smaller triangle within each.
9. Enclose a rounded rectangle within another rectangle above the brim of the hat, forming a buckle. Extend a curved line from each side of the buckle to the side of the hat. For each eye, draw a circle within a circle, and shade the pupil. Draw a curved shape above each, forming eyebrows. Draw the mouth using two curved lines, and place two more within it to indicate the teeth and tongue.
10. Color your leprechaun. Typically, leprechauns are depicted in green clothing and with red hair.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Mother and Daughter' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Mother and Daughter
The Complete Mother Hugging a Daughter Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the mother’s face. Begin with a long, curved line, forming an open oval. Outline the face and hairline using a series of curved lines. Extend curved lines beneath the face to outline the neck. Draw the neck of the garment using a pair of parallel curved lines. Enclose the hair using several overlapping curved lines to indicate a braid.
2. Draw the daughter’s head. Begin with an oval shape. Use curved lines to outline the hairline and ear. Enclose a small, rounded shape on top of the head to indicate a hair tie. Then, use a long and short curved line to enclose the ponytail. Allow the lines to meet in a sharp point.
3. Draw a pair of long, curved lines extending from the shoulder, and connect them at the end using a short line, forming the sleeve. Detail the folds of the garment using curved lines at the elbow and across the chest. Then, sketch the hand. Use long, narrow “U” shaped lines to form each finger.
4. Draw the girl’s sleeve, again using long, curved lines. Sketch her hand using overlapping curved lines. Enclose a small triangle beneath the ear to indicate the girl’s neck.
5. Use long, curved lines to outline the shape of the girl’s dress. Notice how it narrows at the hip before extending outward to form the skirt.
6. Extend two sets of curved lines downward from the dress. These form the girl’s legs. At the bottom, allow the lines to diverge from one another. Then, connect them using a shorter curved line to enclose the feet. Draw another short, curved line across the narrow ankles to indicate the top of the shoes.
7. Use long, curved lines to outline the mother’s skirt.
8. Draw the mother’s other hand on the girl’s back, erasing guide lines as necessary. Use overlapping “U” shaped lines to form each finger.
9. Detail the faces of the mother and daughter. Use small circles for eyes, and short, curved lines to indicate eyebrows, noses, smiling mouths, and eyes that are happily closed.
10. Color the mother and daughter. What is your mom’s favorite color?
Would you like to add other members of your family to the picture? Check out our people drawing guides to learn how. You can even include the family pet! You’ll find pets of all shapes and sizes among our selection of animal drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Nose' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Nose
The Complete Nose Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, vertical line. This will form the bridge of the nose, and it will also serve as a guide line.
2. Draw a straight, horizontal line perpendicular to the first. This will serve as a guide line.
3. Draw two curved lines, one on each side of the vertical line. Note that the lines are closer together at the top than at the bottom. These lines serve to outline the shape of the nose.
4. Draw a circle around the point where the perpendicular lines meet. This will help you to draw the tip of the nose.
5. Draw two short, curved lines at the bottom of the circle. These lines begin the nostrils, the openings of the nose.
6. Erase the guide lines formed by the circle.
7. Draw a curved line crossing the horizontal line. This outlines the side of the nostril.
8. Draw a curved line crossing the horizontal line on the opposite side, forming a mirror image. This outlines the other nostril.
9. Erase the guide lines formed by the perpendicular lines. Note that a portion of the vertical line remains to form the bridge of the nose. Finally, shade the opening of the nostrils.
10. Color your nose.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Mouth ​and Tongue' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for​ Drawing a Mouth and Tongue
The Complete Mouth and Tongue Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line, roughly in the shape of a rounded letter “M.” This outlines the top of the upper lip.
2. Using another long, curved line, outline the bottom lip, fully enclosing the mouth. Notice the bulges near the corners of the mouth.
3. Within the mouth, draw another curved line that loosely follows the contours of the upper lip. This outlines the bottom side of the lip.
4. Use a long, “U” shaped line to enclose the inner mouth, outlining the top of the lower lip as well. Notice how the corners of the mouth include sharp points.
5. Draw two overlapping curved lines within the open mouth. These lines begin the outline of the tongue.
6. Draw a large “U” shaped line, connecting one side of the tongue to the other. This outlines the extended tongue.
7. Erase the guide lines from the tongue.
8.Sketch in the teeth. To do this, use three lines to enclose a rectangular shape along the bottom of the top lip. Notice that the corners are rounded. Then, draw another rounded rectangular shape next to this one. Continue to add teeth in this way until you reach the side of the mouth.
9. Add depth and texture to the tongue by drawing a curved line down the center. Draw curved lines along the tops of each lip to provide a sense of dimension.
10. Color your lips and tongue. These features are most often depicted in shades of red and pink.
Would you like to learn how to draw other body parts to complete this face? Check out our easy drawing guides for eyes, crying eyes, noses, ears, braids, curly hair, kid’s hair, anime hair, and dreadlocks.
Watch 'How to Draw a Mummy' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a Mummy
The Complete Mummy Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the mummy’s head.
2. Extend two jointed, curved lines downward from the head. These lines will form the mummy’s body and legs.
3. Complete the mummy’s legs and feet. Notice how the feet end in rounded points.
4. Draw the mummy’s arm. Use two “V” shaped lines to outline the arm. Then, draw the fingers using “U” shaped lines.
5. Draw the mummy’s other hand. Begin by enclosing each finger using an elongated oval. Then, use a long, curved line to enclose the palm and thumb.
6. Draw the mummy’s arm. Enclose a half oval shape above the hand to indicate the shoulder. Use a wide “U” shaped line to form the elbow, with a short, curved line indicating the bend in the arm.
7. Detail the mummy’s face with eyes and wrappings. For the eyes, draw two short, straight lines with curved tips to indicate the brows. Then, draw curved lines across the face, sometimes parallel and sometimes meeting in points.
8. Continue to draw the mummy’s wrappings by crisscrossing his body with curved lines. Don’t forget the arms, legs, and feet.
9. Draw wrappings dangling from the mummy’s arms. For each, draw a narrow rectangle with rounded corners.
10. Color your mummy. Why not draw him next to a haunted house or an Egyptian pyramid?
Watch 'How to Draw a Sad Girl Crying' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Sad Girl Crying
The Complete Sad Girl Crying Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the girl’s hair. Use long curved lines to outline the top of the head and hair. Use lines of various lengths to craft the tendrils of hair flowing over her face and shoulders. Each lock of hair should end in a sharp point.
2. Sketch the girl’s arm and hand. Use sets of parallel lines to outline the arm. Notice how the lines connect at sharp angles to form the bend of the elbow. Enclose the tip of the sleeve and indicate folded material using short lines. Then, use two curved lines to connect the wrist to the hair, forming the hand.
3. Draw the remaining arm, sleeve, and hand, partially concealed by the first.
4. Use a series of curved lines to indicate the bent leg. Notice how the long line doubles back on itself to form the lower leg.
5. Sketch in the girl’s shirt and pants. Use curved lines to enclose each.
6. Enclose the remaining leg using a long, curved line.
7. Use several short, curved lines, meeting in points, to outline the shape of the shoe. Draw a curved line across the top of the shape to differentiate the shoe from the foot.
8. Use curved lines to enclose the remaining foot.
9. Use straight lines to draw the edges of the walls and floor. This gives the image a three-dimensional appearance.
10. Color your girl.
Don’t be sad – there are plenty more tutorials where that came from. Check out our people drawing guides. You can learn to draw happy faces, angry faces, frightening faces, and everything in between.
Watch 'How to Draw​ a Samurai' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​a Samurai
The Complete Samurai Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to sketch the samurai’s head. Extend two curved lines beneath the circle, allowing them to meet in a gentle point that will form the chin. Use a short, curved line to enclose the ear on the side of the head.
2.​ Draw a short line just below the ear. Connect this line to the chin using a deep “V” shaped line. This forms the samurai’s neck and that of his garment. Enclose a set of narrow, overlapping rectangles alongside the “V,” forming the collar of the garment. Use curved lines to enclose the shape of the shoulders.
3.​ ​​​​​Draw a short line to define the shape of the neck. Then, use a series of overlapping curved lines to enclose the sleeve. Note how the sleeve widens towards the end.
4. ​​Using two long, curved lines, enclose a curved triangular shape alongside the sleeve. This forms the bottom of the garment. Draw the arm using a set of parallel lines. Use pairs of curved lines to form the fingers, connected on the tip with a gentle curve.
5.​​ ​​Draw a curved “M” shape at the top of the face to indicate the hairline. Then, enclose a semicircle above it. Enclose a small curved shape at the top to indicate a hair tie. From the tie, extend a pair of curved lines, connected on the end using a jagged line. Draw curved lines down the length of the hair to add texture. Erase guide lines as necessary.
6.​ ​Enclose the billowing pant legs using a series of overlapping, slightly curved lines. Notice that one leg is extended while the other is bent at the knee. Enclose a few irregular shapes beneath the sleeve to indicate the end of the garment.
7. Draw the feet and sandals.
8. ​​​Next, draw the samurai’s hand and weapon. Use overlapping ovals to form the fingers, as well as the hilt of the weapon.
9.​​​​ Draw the opposite end of the weapon behind the samurai, using two curved lines. Finally, detail the face. Draw anime style eyes with flat tops, using small shaded circles for the pupils. Use curved lines to form the eyebrows, nose, mouth, and chin.
10.​ Color your samurai.
If you’ve got a taste for anime and manga style art, check out our people drawing guides to piece together a character all your own. Or, learn to draw such well known characters such a Goku, a ninja, and Naruto.
Watch 'How to Draw ​a Teacher' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Teacher
The Complete Teacher Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Sketch the teacher’s face and hair. Outline the face using a “U” shaped line. Use two curved lines to form a lock of hair in the center of the forehead. From each side of the lock, extend another curved line. Allow this line to meet the top of the “U” and curve past it. Then, extend a short curved line from this line to the face to form each ear. Use a large, upside down “U” shaped line to sketch the top of the hair, with shorter lines curving back toward the face.
2. Extend a pair of lines downward from the face to form the neck. Connect the edges of the hair to the neck. Then, use a series of curved lines to sketch the collar of the garment, the shoulders, the back of each sleeve, and the sides of the garment.
3. Use a series of curved lines to sketch the sleeve covering the extended arm. Note the small lines indicating folds of fabric at the bend of the elbow. Then, use curved lines, “U” shaped lines, and small ovals to sketch the grasping hand.
4. Draw a pair of lines extending from each side of the hand. Allow the upper lines to gradually meet in a point. Connect the divergent lower lines using a small oval. This forms the teacher’s pointer, which she uses to draw attention to items on the blackboard.
5. Use a pair of wide “V” shaped lines to form the remaining sleeve; connect the lines using a short, curved line. Note the overlapping of lines at the elbow. Then, use a series of curved and “U” shaped lines to sketch the hand.
6. Draw a book in the teacher’s hand. Begin by enclosing a square shape. Draw a rectangle on one side to indicate the book’s spine, and another straight line atop the book, connected by a short, curved line, to indicate the pages.
7. Detail the teacher’s face. Draw two circles to form the glasses. Connect the circles together and to the sides of the face using short lines. Draw a dot within each circle to indicate the eye, and a curved line above it. Use a curved line to form the nose, and three curved lines to craft the smiling mouth and tongue.
8. Draw the blackboard, chalkboard, or dry erase board. Enclose a rectangle with a wide triangle resting atop it.
9. On the board, write some multiplication tables. Check to make sure your math is correct!
10. Color your clever teacher.
Every teacher needs students to instruct. Check out our people drawing guides, because class is in session! One can even present the classic apple as a gift for the teacher.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Witch' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​Witch
The Complete Witch Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing an irregular circle, a bit flattened on each side. This will form the witch’s head.
2. ​From the head, extend a long, curved line. Enclose an irregular shape. This will form the witch’s gown.
3. ​Draw a long, curved line through the witch’s head. This will form the brim of the hat. Enclose a tuft of hair between the brim and the face. Use a series of short, connected, curved lines that meet in points.
4. ​Draw the witch’s ears. For each ear, use a curved line. Add detail within the ear using short, curved lines.
5. ​Continue the hat. Connect another curved line to each end of the brim, outlining the top of the brim. Use a long, curved line to enclose the roughly triangular shape of the top of the hat. Notice the curves and bends near the point. Finally, use a series of short lines connected at jagged points to enclose the hair.
6. ​​Draw the face. Enclose two large eyes using ovals. Draw a vertical curve through each oval, and enclose a small circle; shade between the two. Use a curved line to form the smiling mouth, with tiny squiggles adding depth at each end. Use a small “C” shaped line for the nose. Enclose the eyebrows using two long curved lines, connected at a point on one end and by a short, straight line on the other.
7. ​​Draw the arms. Use long, curved lines to outline the sleeves, connected by a shorter curved line at the end. Use two “U” shaped lines to form each mitten-like hand. Draw a set of short, parallel lines extending from the hands, and connect these using a small oval. This forms the end of the broomstick.
8. ​​Enclose two curved triangular shapes beneath the gown to indicate the legs and feet. Draw two curved lines across each, to form the top and sole of the shoes. Then, draw curved lines across the gown to indicate folds in the fabric.
9. ​Enclose a bushy figure using curved lines of differing lengths. This indicates the straw of the broom. Draw curved lines across it to give it texture.
10. ​​Color your character.
Watch 'How to Draw a Zombie' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Zombie
The Complete Zombie Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw a circle for the base of the head. Don’t make it too large on your paper – you have a whole rest of the body to add.
2. Keeping to the overall size of the circle you just drew, draw a U-shape that goes in around the temples of the head and out around the cheeks and jaw. This will create a more realistic outline for the head than a plain circle.
3. At the bottom of the head, draw two lines down and connect them with a U-shape to form the neck and chest opening. This should be fairly small.
4. Connecting out from the neck, draw a line off to the left side, then draw down for the body, then across to form the waist, then back up, and back towards the left, closing it off at the other side of the neck. This should form the torso. These lines should be slightly bent outwards to reflect the curves of a human body, not straight lines like a robot.
5. On both the left and right sides, draw an arm extending out and downward, finished off by a few fingers on each hand and closed off by coming back up the inside of the arm.
6. Draw one trouser leg, flared slightly out, on the left side of your zombie. Add a shoe with a simple semi-circle at the bottom.
7. Make the other leg different, like a zombie might have, by having his pant leg ripped halfway down. Then have his leg extend down into his shoe. The leg is skinnier than the trouser pant on the other leg, showing that the pant has been ripped, so don’t worry if your ‘rip’ doesn’t look very clear.
8. Now erase your extra lines around the head, leaving only the curvier lines of the head instead of the original circle you started out with.
9. Add a face, cuts and bruises, and rips and tears! This is the part where you can get really creative with your zombie and draw him just the way you want him. For a face, if you want to get cartoony, make his eyes go different ways and have his teeth coming out unevenly. Lines with other lines going through it at a perpendicular (90 degree) angle gives the impression of scars and circles in clothing seem like holes.
Once you’ve finished your drawing, feel free to add some color and remember – zombie skin is often a little bit green and creepy!
Watch 'How to Draw an Alien' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing an Alien
The Complete Alien Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a slightly irregular circle. This will form the alien’s head.
2. From the head, extend a long curved line, doubling it back upon itself to enclose an irregular shape. This will form the alien’s body. Note how the lines come closer together to form the neck.
3. Draw the legs and feet. For the first leg, extend a long curved line from the body. Double it back upon itself, allowing the foot to be wider than the leg, and at an angle. For the second leg, again use a long, curved line, and enclose the figure by attaching it to the first line at the back of the foot.
4. Draw the alien’s arm. Extend two parallel curved lines from the shoulder, bending them at the elbow.
5. Draw the second arm. Extend two shorter parallel lines from the body. Then, extend another set of parallel lines at an angle from the first, forming the elbow and forearm.
6. Draw the hands. One hand is at rest, and it can be drawn using several short, curved lines, connected in points between the fingers and at the tips of the fingers. The other hand is raised in greeting. For this hand, you will again use several curved lines. Add short, curved lines to the palm at the base of the fingers and thumb.
7. Add facial features. Draw two large ovals for the eyes. Draw a smaller oval within each, and shade between the two. For the nose, draw two small teardrop shapes and shade them. Draw a small oval to represent the mouth, and shade within it as well. Finally, detail the mouth with a curved line beneath it.
8. For each antennae, draw two curved, parallel lines very close together. Enclose the antennae with a circle on the end.
9. Erase guide lines from the arms, legs, and antennae. Detail the torso with several curved lines.
10. Color your alien. Traditionally, aliens are represented as green in color, but use your imagination! Where will your alien land? Place him on the moon or give him a robot companion.
Watch 'How to Draw an Angel' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Angel
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline the angel’s head.
Beneath the circle, draw a curved line to outline the chin.
Draw a curved line on each side of the head to enclose the ears. Within each ear, draw a series of short, connected, curved lines to detail the inside of the ear.
Erase the guide lines from the face.
Draw two short, curved lines protruding from the bottom of the face to form the neck. Enclose the shape of the neck using a short, “S” shaped line.
Below the neck, draw two long, curved lines to outline the shape of the body.
Draw a scalloped, wavy line around the base of the neck to add detail to the garment. Connect the long, curved lines at the bottom using a long, wavy line. Detail the fabric folds of the dress by drawing several curved lines between the long, curved lines.
Draw a sleeve by extending one curved line from the collar of the garment and another from the body. Connect the lines using a wavy line.
Draw the other sleeve by extending a curved line from the collar on the opposite side. Connect this line to the bottom of the dress using a curved line.
Draw a hand extending from one sleeve. Use narrow “U” shaped lines to form the fingers, and curved lines to detail the palm.
Draw a hand extending from the other sleeve, again utilizing narrow “U” shaped lines to form the fingers.
Detail the sleeves. Draw a wavy, scalloped line to form a cuff around each sleeve. Give the sleeve depth by drawing a curved line from the hand to the bottom of each sleeve.
Give the angel flowing hair. Draw a long, curved line, beginning at one sleeve, surrounding the head, and ending at the other sleeve. Draw a number of curved lines extending from the head to the shoulders. Across the forehead, draw two curved lines that meet in a point at the top of the head.
Erase the guide lines from the head.
Draw the eyes. Draw a wide, “U” shaped line to form the bottom of each eye, and a thick curved line to form the top. Above the eyes, use curved lines to enclose a curved shape and form eyebrows.
Draw an oval within each eye area. Inside the oval, draw a smaller oval and a “W” shaped line across the bottom. Shade between the small oval and the line. Then, Draw a wide “U” shaped line to form the smiling mouth. Draw curved lines beneath the mouth to dimple the chin, and a short, curved line to form the nose.
Draw the wings. Extend a long, curved line from the angel’s hair on each side. Then, extend a series of overlapping, shorter curved lines from the tip of the long line. Repeat until the form of the wing is enclosed by the overlapping lines, meeting the hair or sleeve.
Detail the wings with additional feathers. Do so by drawing a number of connected, “U” shaped lines in each.
Draw a halo above the angel’s head. Do so by drawing an oval within an oval.
how to draw an angel.
Color your angel.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an Astronaut' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​an Astronaut
The Complete Astronaut Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to outline the astronaut’s head.
2. ​​​​Draw curved lines on the outside of the circle, forming an outline like a highly rounded rectangle.
3. ​​​Erase the guide lines left from the circle.
4. ​​​​​​​​​Draw a curved rectangular shape beneath the astronaut’s head. This will form the body. Below the body, draw two diagonal lines. Between these lines, draw an upside down “V.” Connect the lines using short, curved lines to form the astronaut’s legs.
5.​ ​​​​​Add details to the space suit. Draw a set of curved, parallel lines across each leg to indicate the knee. Then, draw an irregular shape at the bottom of the leg, rounded on top and flatter on the bottom. These shapes form the astronaut’s feet.
6. ​​Add detail to the body of the spacesuit. Draw a straight, horizontal line in the middle, and attach it to the sides using curved lines. Draw three small circles beneath this line. From two of the circles, extend sets of curved, parallel lines to the sides of the spacesuit. Band the enclosed shape using short, curved lines.
7. ​​​​​​​Erase the sides of the body of the spacesuit closest to the helmet.
8. ​​​​​​​​Draw a curved line beneath the helmet to indicate the neck, then draw the arms. Draw a long, curved line from the bottom of the helmet. As the line reaches the waist, extend it outwards then double it back upon itself, forming the hand. Use another curved line to outline the thumb and the underside of the arm. Repeat on the opposite side.
9. ​​​​​​​​​Draw a smaller, rounded square within the confines of the helmet. Draw a small oval and an irregular curved shape on one side to indicate the glass. Outline a rectangular shape behind the astronaut; this is his life support equipment. Draw a small circle on each side. Finally, draw a curved line across each arm to separate the glove from the suit.
10. ​​​​​​​​​​Color your astronaut. Today, most countries employ white spacesuits, but be creative!
​Why not use our other drawing tutorials to give your astronaut an out of this world environment? Use our guides to draw a robot, the moon, and the night sky. Boldly go where no artist has gone before!
Watch 'How to Draw ​a​n Elf' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​a​n Elf
The Complete Elf Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the elf’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​​Draw two curved lines extending downward from the circle, curving outward at the bottom. Enclose the space between the lines using a curved line. This will form the elf’s body.
3. ​​​​​​​Enclose two shapes, curved rectangles, beneath the elf’s body. These will form the bottom of his tunic.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​From each of the curved rectangles, extend a pair of short, straight, parallel lines. These will form the elf’s legs. Draw a set of curved, parallel lines across the body, indicating a belt. Within the belt, draw two vertical straight lines to form the belt buckle.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the tunic.
6. ​​Draw pointed shoes at the bottom of the legs. Use two curved lines for each, meeting in a gentle curve on one side and a sharp point on the other. The resulting shape should resemble a twisted raindrop.
7. ​​​​​​​​​​​Draw a narrow, curved rectangle across the top of the head; this will form the brim of the hat. Draw a circle – the puffy decoration at the top of the hat – above and to one side of the brim. Then, connect the brim to the ball using two long, curved lines. Draw a curved line on each side of the body, from the head to the bottom of the tunic. These form the arms. Draw a set of curved lines across each, indicating the cuff and separating the arm from the hand.
8. ​Erase guide lines from the hat.
9. ​​​Detail the face and garment. Enclose a teardrop shape, pointed on top, on both sides of the head. These form the elf’s pointed ears. Detail the inside of each ear with a curved line. Draw a circle for the nose, and dots for eyes. Indicate eyebrows with a curved line above each eye. Draw a wide “U” to form the mouth, enclosed with a straight line at the top. Use a curved line to indicate the tongue. Draw a straight line upwards from the belt, and connect it to the face using two small, curved triangles, forming the tunic’s collar.
10. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Color your elf.
Watch 'How to Draw an Ear Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Ear
The Complete Ear Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line, resembling a backwards letter “C.” This outlines the shape of the ear.
2. Draw a short, curved line along the side of the ear. This helps to shape the earlobe.
3. Erase the guide line from the earlobe.
4. Draw a long, curved, irregular line within the shape of the ear. This adds detail to the fold of the ear. Notice the narrow, sharp extension of the line near the bottom of the ear.
5. Connect the line drawn in the previous step to the edge of the ear using a curved, wavy line.
6. Add more detail to the ear. From the top of the interior line, draw another curved line up and over the first, somewhat parallel to the outline of the ear. This details the fold at the edge of the ear.
7. Draw a curved line down the middle of the ear, near the edge. This continues to add the detail of the fold.
8. From the line drawn in Step 6, draw a short, curved line, continuing to add detailed folds to the ear.
9. Draw a curving, roughly “S” shaped line in the innermost portion of the ear, outlining the opening to the ear canal.
10. Color your ear, but why stop there? Check out our other drawing tutorials to learn to draw eyes, noses, lips, and hair to complete your drawing of the human face.
Watch 'How to Draw ​an ​Eyeball' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ an ​Eyeball
The Complete Eyeball Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the iris, the colorful ring within the eye.
2. ​​Draw a smaller circle within the first. This forms the pupil, the dark portion in the middle of the eye.
3. ​​Draw a small oval. It should be placed within the larger circle and overlapping the smaller circle. This forms a shine, or reflection of light, on the eye.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase guide lines from within the shine.
5.​​ ​Draw another small oval within the circle, smaller than and opposite the first. This forms an additional eye shine.
6.​ ​​​​Near the smaller oval, draw a tiny circle. This forms yet another reflection of light upon the eye.
7. ​​​Shade the pupil.
8.​​​ ​​Surround the figure with a large circle, leaving plenty of space between this circle and the iris. This outlines the entire eyeball.
9.​​ ​​​​​​Detail the eye. Within the iris, extending outward from the pupil, lightly draw straight lines of various lengths. This adds the natural texture of color variation to the iris. Along the edges of the eye, extending inward from the outer circle, draw curved lines of various lengths. Allow additional curved lines to branch from these. This forms the blood vessels of the eye, and illustrates what it means for an eye to be “bloodshot.”
10. ​​​​​ ​​Color the eye. How may an eye be shaded? The iris of the human eye comes in a variety of colors, including light and dark blue; green; hazel, a combination of brown and green; grey; brown, which can range from light brown to nearly black; or amber, a brownish honey color. The actress Elizabeth Taylor was even said to have violet, or purple eyes. The iris of those with albinism may appear red in color. Why? Because so little pigment is present that the blood vessels are visible.
​​​The sclera is typically white, but can be yellowish, especially in those with certain medical conditions. When eyes are bloodshot, the vessels appear bright red.​Don’t stop with just an eye – check out our people drawing tutorials to learn to draw features such as noses, mouths, hair, and ears, as well as entire characters!
Watch 'How to Draw ​Anime Eyes' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​​ ​Anime Eyes
The Complete Anime Eyes Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​Begin by drawing two curved lines. These will form the tops of the eyes.
2. ​​​​​​​​​​​Draw another curved line beneath each of those drawn in the first step. It should meet the first line in a point on the inside of each eye, open on the other end. Then, extend short, curved lines outward from the end of each line. Connect the lines using a short, straight line, enclosing the upper eye.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​​Allow some space beneath each eye, then draw a curved line. On one end of each line, to the outside of the eye, draw a pair of short lines.
4. ​​Draw a thick, curved line above each eye. These lines represent the eyebrows.
5.​​ ​​​​​​​Use a long, curved line to enclose an irregular rounded shape between the upper and lower portions of the eye. This will form the iris of the eye.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Repeat this process on the other eye, enclosing an irregular rounded shape using a long, curved line, to form a mirror image.
7. ​​​Within the iris of each eye, draw a small circle to form the pupil.
8.​​​ ​​​​​Add detail to the iris of the eye. Draw a curved line connecting the pupil to the iris on each side. The resulting shape should resemble two mountains, with the pupil like a rising sun between them.
9.​​​ Draw a small oval beside each pupil to highlight the eye, and shade the upper portion of the eye.
10. ​​​​​​​Color your anime eyes. Common human eye colors include brown, amber, green, hazel, grey, blue, and even violet. Of course, your anime character can sport any eye color you may dream up. Don’t forget to be creative!
Want to learn more anime drawing tips? Check out our manga hair guide, as well as characters such as Goku, Naruto, Charizard, and Pikachu.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​an Anime Girl' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ ​​​​​an Anime Girl
The Complete Anime Girl Face Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the basic outline of the face.
2. ​​​​Use a curved line to sculpt the pointed shape of the chin and the oval shape of the ear, beneath the original circle.
3. ​Erase the guide lines of the original circle, leaving a clean outline of the face.
4. ​​​​​​​​​Sketch in the hair. Use a long, curved line to outline the hair above the head. Then, use a series of curved lines, meeting in sharp points, to craft the locks of hair hanging about the face. Each lock should be shaped roughly like a narrow, curved triangle. Note that some overlap others.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​Draw a squiggly line across the ear, indicating the inner ear’s detail. Then, extend two curved lines downward from the head to form the neck. Draw a “V” shaped line at the base of the neck, forming the collar of the shirt. Then, use curved lines to draw the shoulders.
6. ​​​​​​​​​​Continue to sketch the hair. On each side of the neck, use long and short curved lines to sketch the locks, allowing the lines to meet in sharp, curving points. At the back of the head, draw two circles. This forms a hair barrette. Draw polka dot circles upon it. Then, draw a pigtail emerging from the barrette. To draw the pigtail, use curved lines that meet in sharp points.
7. ​​​​​​​​Erase guide lines from the hair.
8.​​​ ​​​​Draw the eyes. For each eye, draw a short curved line to form the bottom lid, and a longer, thickly shaded line for the top lid. Use short lines to add more detail to the top lid. Then, draw an irregular curved shape connected each set of lids. Above each eye, draw a thick, curved line to form the eyebrow.
9.​​ ​Within each eye, draw an oval. Then, draw a smaller, narrow oval within this shape. Shade the larger oval to form the pupil of the eye. Draw a small, sideways “V” shaped line to indicate the nose. Draw a wide curve to form the smiling mouth, and two smaller curved lines to indicate the chin. Finally, texture the hair by drawing curved lines at the base of the pigtail.
10. ​Color your anime girl. Be creative – anime characters often have vibrantly shaded hair. Would you like to try your hand at even more anime art? Check out our tutorials for manga hair, Naruto, a ninja, charizard, pikachu, and Goku.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Buddha' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Buddha
The Complete Buddha Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing an oval. This will help you to shape the top of the Buddha’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​Beneath the oval, enclose another ovular shape using a long, curved line. This forms the lower portion of the Buddha’s face.
3. ​Erase the guide line between the two figures.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Sketch in the Buddha’s hair. To do so, draw short, curved lines connecting the outside of the ovular forms, encasing the area where the two ovals met. Then, draw a long, curved line connecting those two points on the inside of the figure. Notice that the line is loosely shaped like the letter “M.”
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw the hair bun atop Buddha’s head. Use a curved line to enclose an oval shape disappearing behind the top of the head.
6.​ ​​Draw the ears. enclose the ears using a set of overlapping curved lines. Erase guide lines as necessary. Within the ear, enclose a narrow teardrop shape.
7. ​Detail and texture the hair. Do so by drawing small circles of various sizes. According to some legends, this texture isn’t hair at all, but tiny snails that covered the Buddha’s head to keep him cool while he meditated in the hot sun.
8.​​​ ​Extend two curved lines downward from the head, forming the neck. Note how the lines curve outward in opposite directions. Detail the contour of the throat using a short, curved line.
9.​​ ​​​​Draw the Buddha’s face. Shade two thick, curved shapes to form the eyebrows. Beneath the eyebrows, enclose each eyelid using two curved lines. Thickly shade the lower line. Extend a pair of lines to form the nose, and complete the shape using two curved lines. Use three curved lines to enclose the lips, and another small, curved line beneath the mouth to add depth to the chin.
10. ​Color the Buddha. Statues of Buddha may be made of shining gold, or they may be of stone – grey, brown, or even covered with green moss.
Don’t forget to check out our other fun drawing guides, such as animals and plants.
Watch 'How to Draw Cartoon Hair' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Cartoon Hair
The Complete Cartoon Hair Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form your cartoon character’s head – after all, cartoon hair needs a cartoon head to grow on.
2. Extend a line from one side of the circle to the other, enclosing a rounded shape below the circle. This continues to shape the cartoon character’s face.
3. Draw a straight, horizontal guide line across the bottom portion of the circle. This guide line will help you to place other features on the drawing, such as the ears. Enclose each ear using a curved line. The top of the ear should connect to the head at the same point as the horizontal guide line.
4. Erase the guide line formed by the bottom of the circle.
5. Outline the hair using a series of connected, curved lines. Notice how the outline of the hair is larger than that of the head. Also note how the locks of hair come together in curved points. Use the horizontal guide line to position the hair, and don’t forget the small lock of hair extending from the crown of the head.
6. Draw an even smaller lock at the crown of the head, then draw the hair ties that hold each pigtail. For each hair tie, draw two small circles. Then, decorate the ties with polka dots by drawing even smaller circles within each figure.
7. Erase the horizontal guide line and the guide line formed by the original circle. You now have a clean outline of the head.
8. Draw a pigtail, the hair held apart by the hair tie. Enclose the hair using long and short curved lines that meet in jagged points.
9. Repeat the process of drawing the pigtail on the opposite side, again using long and short curved lines that meet in jagged points.
10. Color your cartoon hair. Common hair colors include black, blonde, brown or red, but many people dye their hair additional colors – for example, purple or blue. Be creative! Why stop there? Visit one of our other drawing tutorials to learn how to add features such as a nose, eyes, and mouth to your drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw Curly Hair' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Curly Hair
The Complete Curly Hair Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the face of the character for which you are drawing the curly hair.
2. Continue to outline the person’s face. Extend a long, curved line downward from one side of the circle. From the opposite side, draw a short curved line, nearly enclosing an oval to form the ear. From the bottom of the oval, draw another curved line to meet the first in a rounded point. This forms the chin.
3. Draw an irregular wavy line across the circle, forming the hair line. Note how the line peaks in the middle of the face.
4. Draw a long, irregular, wavy line around the exterior of the face, outlining the hair.
5. Erase the guide lines formed by the original circle. You now have a clean outline of the face and hair.
6. Draw the neck by extending two curved lines from the bottom of the head.
7. Enclose the outline of the hair using a series of connected, curved lines of various lengths. Allow the the lines to meet in sharp points, and notice how the overlapping of lines gives the hair the appearance of volume.
8. Add texture to the hair. Beginning at the top of the head and moving downward, draw a number of irregular, wavy lines of various lengths.
9. Continue to detail the hair until you have draw wavy lines down the length of the hair on both sides.
10. Color your character, and her hair. Many people have hair that is red, brown, blonde, grey, or black, and some people dye their hair unusual colors such as pink, blue, or purple. Be creative, but don’t stop there! Check out our other drawing tutorials to learn how to draw eyes, a nose, and lips.
Watch 'How to Draw Captain America' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Captain America
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline Captain America’s head.
Draw a curved line extending from one side of the circle. At the end of the line, draw a tiny curved line.
Draw a curved line extending from the opposite side of the circle.
Draw two curved lines, one extending from each of the previously drawn lines. Allow the lines to meet within the original circle. You have now outlined Captain America’s helmet.
Draw two curved lines extending downward from the helmet, outlining the face.
Enclose an irregular shape below the helmet, using two curved lines. This will form Captain America’s ear.
Erase the guide lines from the helmet.
Draw two irregular oval shapes near the cleft in the helmet. These will form Captain America’s eyes.
Enclose a curved shape at the bottom of the face using two long, curved lines. Allow the lines to meet in a point. This outlines the chin strap of the helmet.
Draw a curved line extending from the cleft in the helmet to indicate the nose. On each side of the nose, draw a nostril using a short, curved line. Draw a curved line to form the mouth, and a wide, curved line beneath it to indicate the chin.
Using a series of curved and straight lines, detail the helmet. The lines should cross just above the eyes, then ascend towards the back of the helmet.
All more detail to the helmet. Draw two curved lines across the side.
Outline each eye using a straight line and several curved lines. Draw several curved lines within the ear, giving it detail.
Draw a circle within each eye. Add a tiny circle within each larger circle. Shade between the circles.
Draw two curved lines across the front of the helmet, extending from above each eye.
Outline Captain America’s garment and shoulder using several curved lines. Square the edges of the garment collar.
Extend a line downward from the chin strap, outlining the neck. Outline the collar of the garment, as well as the neck of the shirt, using curved lines. A curved line across the neck of the shirt gives the detail of folded fabric.
Draw the letter “A” in the middle of Captain America’s helmet. To form a perfect letter “A”, you may first draw a triangle. Draw a line across its tip, and a trapezoid at its base. Erase the guide lines, and draw smaller triangle within.
Add detail by drawing a curved line across the chin strap and the strap along the side of the face. Draw a curved line between the chin strap and the chin.
Color Captain America.
Watch 'How to Draw​​ ​​​​Cupid' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​Cupid
The Complete Cupid Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This will help you to outline Cupid’s head. Then, enclose the jaw and ear beneath the circle, using a long, curved line.
2. ​Draw Cupid’s hair. Draw a curved line around the circle. Continue to extend the outline to the bottom of the jaw, using short, curved lines that connect to form locks of hair. Draw similar curving, sharply pointed locks across the forehead to enclose the shape of the hair. Use a short, curved line to draw an ear opposite the first.
3. ​​Outline an irregular shape beneath the head using a long, curved line. This will form the character’s body.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw two roughly parallel curved lines across the chest, forming one arm. Then, extend two curved lines outward from the bottom of the figure, forming a leg.
5. Use a series of curved lines to draw the hand, completely enclosing the arm. Enclose the foot using curved lines. Then, draw several short, parallel lines at the tip of the foot to distinguish the toes. Finally, Draw a curved line at the top of the leg, and another across the belly.
​6. ​​​​​Draw a pair of curved lines extending from behind the hand, forming the other arm. Enclose the other leg as well, using curved lines. Draw small lines at the end of the foot to indicate the toes.
​7. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Erase the guide lines from the head and body.
​8. ​​​​​​​​Use curved and “U” shaped lines to enclose a fist on the far hand. Extend a set of curved lines from each side of the fist, allowing the lines to end in a spiral shape. This is Cupid’s bow. From the other hand, extend a set of long, narrowly spaced parallel lines, forming the shaft of the arrow. Draw a heart at the end to form the arrowhead.
9. ​​​​Draw the wing using several overlapping curved lines. For each eye, draw a series of three circles; shade between the smallest to form the pupil. Draw a curved shape above each eye to indicate the eyebrow, and another curve for the nose. Use two curved lines to enclose the mouth, and another for the tongue.
​10.​​ Color Cupid.
Watch 'How to Draw Dreadlocks' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Dreadlocks
The Complete Dreadlocks Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This forms the basis of your character’s face and will help you to outline the shape of the hair.
2. Extend a long, slightly curved line downward from one side of the circle. From the bottom of this line, draw another line curving upward toward the circle. This forms the character’s chin and jaw.
3. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the circle. This will serve as a guide line when drawing the hair. Then, connect this line to the jaw, using a curved line to outline the ear.
4. Erase the guide line left by the original circle. You now have a clean outline of a face from which to work.
5. From behind the ear, extend several sets of parallel, loosely “S” shaped lines. Connect the lines at the bottom using short, curved lines. These are the first of your dreadlocks. Outline the neck using a curved line.
6. Using a short, curved line, enclose a semicircle near the top of the head. This forms a hair tie. From the hair tie, draw more parallel curved lines, connecting the lines at the end using short, curved lines.
7. Draw some dreads falling across the forehead. To do this, draw pairs of curved lines of various lengths extending from the peak of the hairline. Connect each set of lines using a short, curved line.
8. Erase any remaining guide lines.
9. Add texture to the hair. Draw long, wavy lines across the scalp, and ring each dreadlock with a series of short, curved lines.
10. Color your character, but why stop there? Check out our other easy drawing guides to learn how to draw eyes, noses, mouths, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw Eyes' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Eyes
The Complete Eyes Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines. These will form the top edge of the eyes.
2. Draw two more curved lines, enclosing the shape of each eye.
3. Draw the eyelid. Begin by extending a short, curved line from the corner of each eye. Then, use a long, curved line to connect the opposite corner of the eye to the short line just drawn.
4. Extend two short, curved lines from the inner corner of each eye. Then, draw a short, curved line above the eye.
5. Erase guide lines from the corner of the eye.
6. Enclose the inner corner of each eye using a short, curved line. Outline the iris, or colored portion, of each eye by enclosing a circle.
7. Begin drawing eyelashes. Draw long, curved lines outward from the eyelid. Draw similar, shorter curved lines extending from the bottom of the eye.
8. Repeat the process of drawing eyelashes on the opposite eye, forming a mirror image. Draw long lashes from the upper lid, and shorter lashes from the lower.
9. Detail the pupil of the eye. Extend a short, slightly curved line inwards from each side of the iris. Connect the lines using a curved, half-circle shaped line, outlining the pupil. Within the pupil, draw a small circle, a shining point of light. Repeat this process on the remaining eye.
10. Color your eyes. In humans, typical eye colors include light and dark brown, blue, green, grey, and at times even violet.
Watch 'How to Draw Feet' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Feet
The Complete Feet Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a set of parallel lines, vertical and slightly curved. One line should be longer than the other. This will form the ankle and lower leg attached to one of the feet.
2. Draw a second set of curved, vertical, parallel lines, forming a mirror image of the first.
3. Draw a circle connecting each set of parallel lines. This will outline the ankle and aid in drawing the rest of the foot.
4. Extend two curved lines from the circle, outlining the top and bottom of the foot. Note how the bottom line includes a sharp bend, indicating the heel of the foot.
5. Draw a set of curved lines extending from the second circle, forming a mirror image. This outlines the top and bottom of the second foot.
6. Enclose each foot using a curved line.
7. Define the shape of the legs and ankles, allowing the curved lines to cross into the circles. Then, add the detail of toes to the tip of the foot. For each toe, draw a curved, “U” shaped line, allowing the lines to connect and overlap.
8. Erase the guide lines from the legs, ankles, and toes. You now have a clean outline of the feet.
9. Add detail to your feet. For each ankle, draw a set of short, curved lines to define the ankle bone. Enclose a rounded rectangular shape at the tip of each toe to indicate the toe nails.
10. Color your feet – maybe even add a little nail polish!
Watch 'How to Draw a​ ​Ghost Rider' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a​ ​Ghost Rider
The Complete Ghost Rider Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
​​​1. Begin by outlining the head. Enclose an irregular shape, noting the bulge at the top of the pointed chin.
2. Outline the body and legs. For the body, enclose an irregular, rounded rectangle. Then, use straight lines to sketch roughly “S” shaped legs and feet. These will look like stick figure feet, but don’t worry – we’ll flesh them out in the next step.
3. Use slightly curved lines to enclose the legs and feet, noting the bend in the knee. Then, draw another line across the foot, differentiating the shoe.
4. Add detail to the clothing of the torso. Draw a curved line across the bottom of the torso, indicating a belt. Draw spikes on it by sketching small circles down its length. Then, draw a curved diagonal line across the torso. Allow another line on the opposite diagonal to meet it. Then, enclose the garment’s collar using a series of straight lines. The collar should resemble two connected triangles.
5. Draw the arms and fists. For each fist, draw a rectangle, and a smaller rectangle for the thumb. Divide the fingers using short, straight lines. Draw the arms using several curved lines, connected at angles that indicate elbows. Draw a set of parallel, curved lines across one arm, indicating the cuff of the sleeve.
6. Draw a chain in the rider’s hands To draw the chain, sketch a series of small, connected circles. Then, draw a smaller circle within each circle.
7. Detail the face. Draw a triangular shape on each side to form the cheek bones. Draw a curved line for each brow, and enclose a semicircle beneath it to form the eye. Draw a triangle for the nose. For the mouth, draw two curved lines and connect them with straight lines. Then, draw a series of connected, curved lines to form the teeth.
8. Draw the hair. Use curved lines of various lengths, allowing them to meet in points.
9. Texture the hair by drawing long and short curved lines along its length.
10. Color your fearsome character.
Watch 'How to Draw the Grim Reaper' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing the Grim Reaper
The Complete Grim Reaper Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rhombus – a four sided shape, like a square, but upturned on its corner, like a diamond. The corners should be rounded, as this shape forms the opening of the grim reaper’s hood.
2. Using a series of curved lines, outline the hood. The lines should surround the rhombus, and should double back to form the wrinkled peak of the hood on one side.
3. Extend two curved lines beneath the head to outline the body.
4. Enclose the body. Use a long, straight, horizontal line for the bottom of the figure. Connect it to the body using several short, curved lines, indicating rumpled folds of the garment.
5. Draw the grim reaper’s hand. Begin by enclosing the fingers, using a small oval for each. Then, use a short, curved line to outline the palm.
6. Draw a rod in the grim reaper’s hand. This will form the handle to his scythe. To draw the rod, extend long, straight, parallel lines above and below the hand. Enclose each end of the rod using a short, curved line.
7. Enclose the sleeves, using two curved lines for each.
8. Use a series of curved lines to outline the grim reaper’s skull-like head. Notice the bulges near the eye sockets, cheekbones, and jaw.
9. Give the grim reaper a face. Draw two curved lines to indicate the brows. Beneath each brow, enclose a half circle to form the eye. Below the eyes, draw a small triangle with a rounded top point to indicate the nose. Draw the blade of the scythe by extending two long, curved lines from the rod, allowing them to meet in a sharp point.
10. Color your character.
Watch 'How to Draw Harry Potter' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Harry Potter
The Complete Harry Potter Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by using a long curved line and a short curved line to outline the chin and ear.
2. Next, draw the hair. For each lock of hair, draw two curved lines that meet in a sharp or gently point. Notice that the lines, and therefore the locks, are of different lengths. Overlap the curved lines, following the rouned shape of both the hairline and the top of the head. Continue to draw locks of hair until the hair is completely enclosed.
3. Draw the shirt collar and the scarf. For the collar, enclose three irregular shapes just below the head. From the collar, extend two roughly parallel lines downward. Connect them at the bottom with a short line. From this, extend many short lines, forming the fringe of the scarf. Connect the portions of the collar using a curved line, and double it back upon itself to enclose the remainder of the scarf.
4. Draw the jacket and the arm. Extend two long curved lines downward from the scarf. Use shorter curved lines to craft the tip and inner side of the sleeve. Texture the folds of fabric using short lines. Then, use connected, narrow, “U” shaped lines to enclose the fingers and hand. Then, use curved lines to enclose the remainder of the jacket.
5. Draw a horizontal curved line from the jacket to the scarf to indicate the bottom of the shirt. Then, enclose two triangle shapes beneath this to indicate the tails of the undershirt. Extend two sets of curved lines to form the legs; connect them at the bottom using curved lines. Detail the folds of fabric using short lines. Finally, use curved lines to complete the outline of the jacket.
6. Use curved lines to enclose the shape of the shoes. Notice the lines parallel to the bottom of the shoes than indicate the soles.
7. Draw the remaining arm using curved lines. Detail the folds of the fabric, especially at the elbow, using short lines. Outline the hand using curved and “U” shaped lines. Extend two lines from the hand, allowing them to meet in a gentle point, to form the wand. Draw large circles for the eyes, with a curved line to indicate the eyebrow above each. Sketch in the lightning bolt shaped scar above one eye.
8. Detail the face. Draw the eyes behind the glasses. Use curved lines to detail the ears, form the mouth and nose, and connect the glasses. Use straight lines to form the glasses’ earpieces.
9. Draw the letter “H” on the shirt, and stripe the scarf using curved lines. Draw short lines extending from the tip of the wand.
Color your character.
Complete your cast with our selection of people drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​Holding Hands' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ ​​Holding Hands
The Complete Holding Hands Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by sketching the first arm. Draw two diagonal, parallel curved lines. Notice the angle in the top line that indicates the curve of the wrist.
2. Extend a long, curved line from the bottom of the arm. Double the line back upon itself, outlining the thumb.
3. From the thumb, extend another long, curved line. Double the line back upon itself, forming the pointer finger. Notice the angle formed by the nearly straight lines of the top of the finger. This indicates the bent knuckle.
4. Draw a curved line upwards from the finger, beginning between the fingertip and first knuckle. Follow the curvature of the pointer finger, forming the middle finger. From the middle finger, extend a similarly curved line to form the ring finger. From the ring finger, extend a curved line to form the pinkie finger. Allow this line to connect with the wrist, completely enclosing the hand.
5. Next, begin to draw the fingers of the second hand. Enclose two elongate rounded shapes, one smaller than the other, overlapping the hand and pointer finger.
6. Enclose two more elongate rounded shapes, overlapping the hand and thumb.
7. Extend a curved line from the base of the thumb. Allow the line to cross over into the thumb, doubling back upon itself until it almost connects outside the hand. This forms the thumb of the second hand.
8. Erase the guide lines that cross the fingers.
9. Extend a pair of parallel, diagonal lines in the opposite direction from the first, outlining the wrist and arm of the second hand. Use a few short, curved lines to designate the palm at the base of the wrist. Then, detail your hands. Enclose the rounded shapes of fingernails at the tips of the fingers. Draw short, curved lines to indicate the curve of each knuckle, both on the fingers and on the back of the hand.
10. Color your hands.
Would you like to draw additional symbols of love? Check out our drawing tutorials for hearts, teddy bears, roses, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw Manga Hair' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Manga Hair
The Complete Manga Hair Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the basic shape of the character’s face.
2. Outline the face. Draw a series of nearly straight lines, forming corners at the jaw and chin. Enclose the figure by using a short, curved line to outline the ear.
3. Enclose an irregular form within the circle using two curved lines. Notice how the lines meet in a downward facing point, off centered to one side of the head. This outlines the character’s hairline.
4. Erase the guide line from the face, left over from the original circle. You now have a clean outline of the head from which to work.
5. Manga hair is well known for its spiky appearance. Using a series of curved lines, enclose a form in the shape of the letter “M.” Its midpoint should align with the downward facing point in the hairline.
6. Outline the hair above the head using a series of short, curved lines that meet in jagged points. Notice that the lines extend from the crown at the back of the head; one set of lines connects to the ear, while the other encircles the head to meet at the hairline.
7. Erase the guide line that had been used to determine the hairline.
8. Enclose the hair between the “M” shaped tuft and the side of the head using several long, curved lines that meet in jagged points, creating tufts of hair that overhang the face.
9. Add texture and detail to the hair. Extending from the crown outwards, draw several sets of connected, curved lines that meet in spiky points.
10. Color your character. Will his hair be blonde like Naruto’s or black like Goku’s? It is up to you to decide. But why stop there? Check out our other easy drawing tutorials to complete your character with a nose, eyes, and mouth.
Watch 'How to Draw Lips' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Lips
The Complete Lips Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, horizontal line. This guide line will aid in shaping the upper and lower lip, as well as in positioning the point where the lips meet.
2. Draw a curved line above the horizontal line, enclosing a semicircle. This will form the upper lip.
3. Draw a curved line beneath the horizontal line, forming a thicker semicircle. This will form the lower lip.
4. Draw two curved lines on top of the the upper lip. This will help shape the contours of the lip.
5. Erase the guide lines from the upper lip.
6. Draw a curved line through the bottom lip, further defining its shape.
7. Erase the guide lines from the bottom lip.
8. Draw a small dot at each end of the lips, indicating the corners of the mouth. Then, draw a wavy line between the dots, allowing the line to pass above and below the original horizontal line. This line defines the shape of the lips at the point where the lips meet.
9. Erase the horizontal guide line from the lips. Detail the lips by drawing short, curved lines of various lengths.
10. Color your lips. Lips are typically shown as being red or pink, but with a little lipstick, you can make them any color you can imagine.
Watch 'How to Draw Santa Claus' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Santa Claus
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval to outline Santa’s head.
Draw a smaller oval within the first to form the nose.
Extend two curved lines from each side of the nose, allowing them to meet in blunt points. This forms the mustache.
Erase the guide line from between the sides of the mustache.
Draw a wavy, scalloped line, enclosing a shape from one side of the head to the other. This forms the beard.
Extend two long, curved lines downward from the beard, outlining the body. Connect the lines using a long, curved line. Around the bottom of the figure, draw a long, scalloped line.
Outline the arm using a long, curved line, looping from the shoulder and into the torso. Draw a shorter curved line to form the other side of the arm.
Erase the guide lines from across the arm.
Enclose the cuff of the sleeve by drawing a series of connected, short, curved lines.
Enclose the hand using a curved line. Add detail where the thumb and fingers meet by drawing a short, curved line.
Erase the guide lines from the hand. Draw a rounded rectangle on one side of the torso to form the belt buckle. Draw a smaller rounded rectangle within the first. Then, draw a set of parallel lines extending from each of the three visible sides of the belt buckle, terminating at the edge of the torso.
Draw Santa’s sack of toys. Draw a wavy line beneath his hand to indicate the opening of the sack. Extend a long, curved line from his hand, looping over his shoulder and ending at the bottom of the figure. Draw a shorter curved line extending from the hand and over the shoulder. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Draw three short, curved lines extending from the bottom of the figure to outline the legs. Connect the lines using a scalloped line. Enclose the cuff of each leg using a scalloped line.
Draw Santa’s boots. For each boot, extend a long curved line from the cuff to outline the bottom of the shoe, looping around to form the top of the shoe. Connect the top of the shoe to the cuff using a short line, and draw a line parallel to the bottom of the boot.
Draw Santa’s other arm by extending a long curved line from the shoulder. Enclose an irregular circle to indicate the hand, and use a scalloped line to form the cuff. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Enclose the bottom of Santa’s hat using a scalloped line.
Draw a circle to form the puffy ball at the end of the hat. Detail it with a few short, curved lines. Connect it to the brim of the hat using two long, curved lines.
Draw two curved lines between the portions of the mustache to indicate the mouth, and draw each eyebrow using two curved lines.
For each eye, draw a circle within a circle. Draw a tiny circle within each eye, and shade around it.
Color Santa. He is typically depicted wearing a red suit with white trim.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Praying Hands' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ ​​​​Praying Hands
The Complete Praying Hands Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by sketching the shape of the hand. Use three curved lines to form three sides of an open, roughly rectangular shape.
2. ​​​Use a series of curved lines to flesh out the top side of the hand. Notice the overlap and bulge that represent the knuckle. Use an upside down, roughly “U” shaped line to enclose the thumb.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Extend the wrist using a curved line. Then, use a long curved line to connect the sides of the wrist. Use additional curved lines to craft the folds of the fabric of the sleeve.
4. ​​​​​​​​Draw three long, curved lines extending from the hand. At the tips, increase the curve so that the lines intersect. These form the fingers.
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​Draw another long, curved line, forming the third finger.
6. ​​​​​​​​​Draw another long, curved line, slightly shorter than the rest. This forms the final finger.
7. ​​​​​​​Erase guide lines from the hand, leaving a clean outline.
8.​​​ ​​​Sketch the second hand behind the first. Begin by extending a long, curved line from the wrist to the tip of the pinkie finger. This encloses the side of the second hand. Indicate another fingertip by drawing a short, curved line between the pinkie and ring fingers. Below the hand, use several overlapping curved lines to form the draping folds of the garment. Finally, use short, curved lines to detail the hand on the palm and the knuckles of the pinkie.
9.​​ ​​Detail the hand. Enclose small, rounded shapes on the fingertips to indicate fingernails. Draw short, curved lines to form the curvature of the knuckles.
10. ​​Color your praying hands.
Would you like to draw more parts of the human body – eyes, noses, and ears, perhaps? Check out our people drawing guides for more informative drawing fun.
Watch 'How to Draw a ​Scary Clown' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a ​​Scary Clown
The Complete Scary Clown Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will form the clown’s nose.
2. Above the circle, draw two sets of curved lines to outline the brow. Beneath each brow, enclose a half circle to form the eyes.
3. To draw the mouth, begin with a long, curved line beneath the nose. Attach it to the nose using two shorter lines. Draw a dot at each corner of the mouth, and detail the inside of the mouth using a jagged line.
4. Outline the mouth, drawing new lines parallel to those previously drawn. Notice how this outline forms circles around the dots at the corners of the mouth.​
​​​5. Using a long, curved line, outline the clown’s head. Notice the bulges near the eyes, jaw, and chin.
6. ​Enclose a circular shape to indicate each ear. Detail the inside of the ear using short, curved lines.
7. Draw a bow tie around the clown’s neck. For the knot of the bow, enclose two rounded shapes. Then, use long, “U” shaped lines to form the sides of the bow. Add the detail of pinched fabric near the knot using short, curved lines.
8. Draw a tuft of fluffy hair on each side of the clown’s head. Do so by using a series of short, connected, curved lines.
9. Draw a scar on the clown’s face. Enclose a semicircle using a curved line. Then, cross it with short lines that resemble stitches.
10. ​​​​Color the scary clown. If he needs any circus animals to accompany him, we’ve got elephants, and lions, and tigers, and bears, oh my!
Watch 'How to Draw a Vampire' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a Vampire
The Complete Vampire Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by enclosing a shape that is rounded on the top and pointed on the bottom, like an upside down teardrop. This will form the vampire’s head and pointed chin.
2. Draw the ears, using two curved lines for each. Notice how the ears have rounded points on top. Use two curved lines, meeting in a point, to outline the hair.
3. Outline the vampire’s hairline using a series of curved lines. Notice how the hairline comes to a point at the front, forms a half circle, and then connects to the ear.
4. Use a series of connected, curved lines to detail the folds of each ear.
5. Draw the neck by enclosing a rounded shape, using a long, curved line.
6. Draw the flared collar of the vampire’s cloak. For each side of the collar, use two curved lines to enclose a curved triangle shape.
7. Draw the nose using a long, bent line. Notice the rounded points at the tip of the nose and side of the nostril. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. Draw the mouth. Begin by sketching a slanted, curved triangle. Detail the corner of the mouth with a curved line, and use another curved line to indicate the tongue. Draw two downward facing triangles at the top of the mouth to indicate the fangs. Finally, draw a curved line beneath the mouth to designate the chin.
9. Draw the eyes. For each eye, begin by enclosing an eyebrow, using three curved lines. Beneath the brow, enclose a circular shape. Draw a smaller circle within.
10. Color your vampire. Vampires are often said to live among bats, so don’t forget to check out our bat drawing tutorial.
Watch 'How to Draw a​ Werewolf' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a​ Werewolf
The Complete Werewolf Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by outlining the wolf’s snout. Using curved lines, outline the rectangular shape of the snout. Extend the line around the brow, and allow it to double back on itself to form the ear. The scruff around the neck consists of lines that meet in points. Note the tufts of hair on the chin, and the rounded triangular shape of the open mouth.
2. ​​​​​Add features to the face. Draw a curved line across the end of the snout, and another curved line within the enclosed shape. Shade the nose. Draw an “S” shaped line to form the brow, and enclose a semicircle beneath it, indicating the eye. Detail the pupil by drawing a curved line through the semicircle. Draw the tongue using a short curved line, and small triangles to form the teeth.
3. Outline the body using curved lines. Note the bend in the lines that indicate the creature’s hips.
4. Give the werewolf some clothing. Draw a curved line above the abdomen, and enclose the figure using a series of short, curved lines that connect in points.
5. Draw the animal’s arm. The shoulder and upper arm will resemble an elongated oval, open to the lower arm. Note the jagged fur at the elbow. For the fingers, use curved lines to form open triangles.
6. Draw the werewolf’s far arm. Use a series of lines to outline the arm and hand, including a backwards “C” shaped line for the interior of the hand. Enclose additional fingers using short lines.
7. Draw the wolf’s legs. For each leg, use a series of curved and straight lines. Note the pointed corners of the knee and ankle, and the flat line of the bottom of the foot. On each foot, include a short curved line to distinguish the toes.
8. Draw the tail. Use a series of curved lines of various lengths, allowing the lines to meet in jagged, furry points.
9. Give that wolf something to howl about. Enclose a circle about his head to indicate the full moon.
10. Color your werewolf. Of course, wolves run in packs – give him some pals of the non-ghoulish variety with our other wolf drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw Tears' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Tears
The Complete Tears Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. Draw a second curved line, connected on one end at a sharp point and on the other using a short, straight line. Shade the shape. This will form the upper lid of the eye.
2. Repeat this process, forming a mirror image of the eyelid opposite the first. Again, draw two curved lines connected by a short, straight line, and shade the figure.
3. Draw several tiny triangles on the outside corner of each eye, and shade within them. These triangles indicate eyelashes. Draw a curved line below each eye. This will form the eye’s lower lid.
4. Enclose a circle within each eye, between the upper and lower lids. This forms the iris, or colored portion, of the eye.
5. Extend a curved line from the inner side of each upper lid. Then, draw the eyebrows above the lids. For each brow, draw two curved lines, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points on each end. Then, draw a short, curved line beneath each brown, indicating the wrinkling of the brow caused by sad emotions.
6. Draw tears escaping from one eye. Using a long, curved line, enclose an irregular, elongated shape. Beneath this shape, enclose a smaller teardrop shape.
7. Draw tears escaping from the other eye. Again, draw an irregular, elongated shape using a long, curved line. Beneath this shape, enclose a couple of teardrop shapes.
8. Draw more teardrops around the tears already drawn.
9. Draw a circle within each eye to form the eye’s pupil. Within the pupil, enclose two overlapping ovals of different sizes. Shade the pupil around the ovals. Then, to give the eyes a watery appearance, enclose circles of different sizes atop the white part of the eye.
10. Color your eyes, but don’t stop there. Check out our other tutorials, such as the nose, mouth, ears, and hair, and learn to complete your drawing of a crying face.
Watch 'How to Draw a 3D Hole' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a 3D Hole
The Complete 3D Hole Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two straight lines. The angle should be pointing upward, like the roof of a house. Notice that one line is longer than the other. These lines form the joints between the walls and the floor at the back of the room.
2. Draw straight lines from the shorter of the two lines, parallel to the longer line. These lines indicate boards on the floor, giving it texture.
3. Enclose a rectangle alongside one of these boards using three shorter straight lines, connected at right angles.
4. Continue to draw parallel lines across the floor, leaving the rectangle unlined.
5. Continue to draw straight, parallel lines across the floor until the entire floor is textured with boards.
6. Draw straight lines descending vertically from the shorter edge of the rectangle. Notice how the spacing of the lines matches the lines drawn on the floor. This helps to give the hole a three-dimensional appearance.
7. Shade the remainder of the hole.
8. Add shading and texture to the unshaded portion of the hole. Use short lines of various lengths descending from the top of the hole and ascending upward from the lowest visible portion of the hole.
9. Continue to draw straight parallel lines to extend the floor as far as you wish.
Color your drawing of a three-dimensional hole.
Is your hole a secret hiding place? A booby trap waiting for an unsuspecting victim? Or something else? Populate your drawing with people and man-made objects using our wide variety of drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw 3D Stairs' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ 3D Stairs
The Complete 3D Stairs Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by outlining the sides of the stairs. Connect six straight lines to form an irregular shape. It should resemble the shape of an open book.
2. Mirror the irregular shape by placing a smaller version of it within the first. Again, use six straight lines to enclose a figure like a bent rectangle or an open book.
3. Begin drawing the individual steps within the staircase. First, draw several straight lines within the smaller irregular figure. They should be parallel to the top of this shape. Then, connect the lines using short straight lines. These short lines should form a zigzag pattern.
4. Continue to draw straight parallel lines. Connect them on the end using short lines, extending the zigzag pattern.
5. Draw the next step on the staircase using two parallel straight lines. Connect them on the end using short lines.
6. Draw another step, again using straight parallel lines. Continue the zigzag pattern to connect them using short lines.
7. Draw additional parallel lines until the steps have reached the bottom of the staircase. Connect them on the ends using short lines.
8. Now it is time to shade your staircase to give it a three-dimensional appearance. Shade the wall to the left of the steps.
9. Shade the fronts of the steps. Extend narrowly spaced lines of differing lengths from the right side of the stairs to indicate shadows. Indicate the right angle on the corner of each wall by drawing a short straight line.
Color your three-dimensional stairs.
Where do your stairs lead? Do they lead to a famous monument, such as the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C.? Or will they take you somewhere more familiar, such as your local library or school? With your pencil in hand, the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw a Beach' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Beach
The Complete Beach Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, horizontal line. This horizon line marks the point where the land and water meet the sky.
2. Draw a long, jagged, curved line downward from the horizon line. This wavy line forms the tide line, the point where the ocean waves meet the beach.
3. Draw a plant growing on the beach. To do so, draw a series of short, curved lines connecting in jagged points.
4. Draw a mountain and tropical forest in the background. To draw the mountain, extend a lumpy, curved line from the middle of the horizon line to the edge of the page. Between this mountain line and the horizon, enclose a couple of rounded shapes using jagged, pointy lines. These indicate tropical trees and plants growing at the base of the mountain.
5. Using four straight lines, enclose a diamond shape on the beach. This indicates a beach blanket or towel left behind by a person.
6.Beside the beach blanket, draw several curved lines, with some overlapping. This indicates the sand of the beach. From the sand, extend a set of straight, parallel, diagonal lines. This forms the support, or shaft, of a beach umbrella.
7. Above the umbrella shaft, draw a long, curved line to outline the top of the umbrella. Draw a dot at the uppermost point to indicate the top of the shaft. Connect the umbrella to the shaft using a series of connected, curved lines resembling upside down “U” shapes.
8. Erase guide lines from within the umbrella.
9. Near the beach blanket, draw more curved lines indicating sand. On top of the sand, draw a circle. Stripe the circle using curved lines. You have just drawn a beach ball. Then, detail the umbrella by drawing long, curved lines from the top of the shaft to the points of the “U” shaped lines. Finally, enclose fluffy clouds in the sky using connected, curved lines.
10.Color your beach landscape. Check out our other tutorials and learn how to add palm trees, animals, people, waves, and more to your picture.
Watch 'How to Draw a Brain' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Brain
The Complete Brain Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw a straight, vertical line. This guide line will help give your brain the correct shape.
2. Outline one side of the brain using a series of long and short connected, curved lines.
3. Continue the outline on the opposite side, using curved lines of various lengths.
4. Enclose one side of the brain using a series of long and short connected, curved lines.
5. Enclose the remaining side of the brain using connected, curved lines of various lengths. The outline of the brain is now complete – notice how it appears contracted in the middle, in the area of the vertical guide line.
6. Erase the guide line from the center of the brain.
7. Add detail to your brain. Draw curved lines in the space the original guide line occupied, dividing the brain into two halves, or hemisheres. Then, draw curved lines and series of connected “U” shaped lines throughout the interior of the brain. This gives it the texture of wrinkles and folds, called sulcus and gyrus.
8. Give your friendly brain a face. Draw two ovals to form the eyes, and a curved line for the smiling mouth. Detail the mouth with a curved line on each end, and draw a small curve beneath it to indicate the chin. Above each eye, use two curved lines and a short, straight line to draw eyebrows.
9. Within each eye, draw an oval, with a tiny circle inside it. Shade between the oval and circle, indicating the pupil.
10. Color your brain. The brain in our example is pink, but scientifically, the brain is known as “grey matter.”
Watch 'How to Draw a Broken Heart' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Broken Heart
The Complete Broken Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line to form one side of the heart shape. The line should resemble an upside down “J” or a fishhook.
2. Draw a second curved line, a mirror image of the first. Allow the lines to connect in downward facing points. You now have the complete shape of a heart.
3. Erase the upper point, where the lines connect at the top of the heart. From one of these lines to the bottom point of the heart, draw a jagged line using a series of short, straight lines. This line indicates the broken portion of the heart.
4. Draw another jagged line, from the top of the heart to its bottom point. Using a series of short, straight, connected lines, endeavor to match the shape of the first jagged line. The sides of the broken heart will thus appear to fit together like puzzle pieces.
5. Soothe your broken heart with a bandage. Outline the bandage using two straight, parallel lines, connected on each end using short, curved lines. The shape should resemble a narrow rectangle with rounded ends.
6. Erase the guide lines from within the bandage.
7. Detail the bandage by drawing two straight lines near the middle, perpendicular to the long, straight lines. Between the lines, draw several small circles.
8. Draw cracks to add detail to the broken heart. Draw each crack using a series of short, straight lines connected at various angles. Allow some of the cracks to branch.
9. Draw teardrop shapes falling from the heart on each side.
10. Color your broken heart. Hearts are often depicted as being red or pink in color. The droplets falling from the heart could be sweat, blood, or tears – that is up to you to decide.
Watch 'How to Draw a Sun' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Sun
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Draw a circle first, as big as you want. It will be the sun’s face, but don’t forget to leave room for the sun’s rays.
Add a bigger circle around the first one.
Draw lines to divide the circles into 8 equal parts.
Next, draw another 8 lines to divide the circles into 16 parts. These narrow sectors will help to draw the sun’s rays.
To complete the framework for the rays, divide the outer circle once more with lines.
Draw ‘V’-shapes around the lines from the previous step. Make sure that the ‘V’-lines start and end where the previous lines intersect with the circles.
Erase the extra lines in the middle.
Now, we will add another set of sun’s rays. Draw ‘V’-shapes between the previous ones.
Erase the extra lines in front of the latest set of rays.
We’re almost done. Erase the extra lines in front of the other set of rays.
Draw a big smile on your sun. Erase the outer circle.
Add big eyes, eyelashes, eyebrows, and a button nose to make the sun look cute and happy.
Color your sun drawing.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​​a ​Crying Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a ​Crying Emoji
The Complete Crying Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the emoji’s round face.
2. ​​​​​​​​Draw two small circles within the original circle, and shade within each shape. These circles form the emoji’s eyes.
3. ​​​Draw a curved line above each eye to indicate the eyebrows. Notice that the curve is in the opposite direction from those featured in most drawings. This gives the face the expression of concern, anxiety, or sadness.
4. ​​​Use a straight line and a curved line to enclose the shape of the mouth. Notice that the straight portion is on the bottom of the mouth, forming a frown. Draw a small curved line beneath the mouth to indicate the chin.
5.​​ ​​​Beneath one eye, enclose a teardrop shape, pointed on the top and rounded on the bottom.
6. Color your sad, crying emoji. What color will he be? Classically, smiley faces are bright yellow in color. Our example is blue, representing the “blues” or sadness he depicts. Be creative, and make your emoji whatever color you desire.
Don’t forget to express yourself using our other fun emoji drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Monster' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cartoon Monster
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle to outline the monster’s head.
Beneath the head, outline the monster’s furry body. Instead of using a single line, outline the body using short, curved lines that meet each other in jagged points. This will give the monster a furry texture.
Erase the guide line from the bottom of the head.
Draw an arm. Use the same technique of short, connected lines to form jagged fur.
Repeat the process to draw an arm on the opposite side.
Draw a hand, using large “U” shaped lines to form the fingers. Use short, jagged lines to add a furry texture to each finger.
Repeat this process to form a mirror image on the opposite side.
Draw a triangle at the tip of each finger to form the claws.
Extend two curved lines from the bottom of the figure to form the leg. Outline the bottom and the top of the foot using curved lines. Then, draw the toes using overlapping “U” shaped lines and curved lines.
Repeat this process to form a mirror image on the opposite side.
Draw a curved triangle at the tip of each toe to form the claws.
Draw a curved line extending from the side of the head. Enclose the shape using short, jagged lines. This forms the monster’s ear.
Repeat this process on the opposite side to form a mirror image.
Enclose a shape within each ear using two curved lines, meeting at a point.
Draw a horn. Extend two curved lines upward from the top of the head, allowing them to meet in a rounded point. Then, detail the horn by drawing curved lines across it.
Repeat this process on the opposite side to form a mirror image of the horn.
Draw a horn in the middle of the head. First, draw a rounded triangle. Erase guide lines as necessary. Draw curved lines across the horn.
Draw a large “U” shaped line to form the mouth. Connect the ends of the line using a curved line, and embellish it with short, curved lines at the corners. Draw a curved line under the mouth to indicate the chin, and “U” shaped lines of various sizes within the mouth to form the teeth. Then, draw a curved line along the bottom of each eye, and enclose an oval shape above it. Draw each eyebrow using two curved lines.
Draw triangles along the bottom of the mouth to form teeth, and two curved lines to indicate the tongue. In each eye, draw an oval within an oval. Then, draw two small circles inside the inner oval. Shade between the circles. Give the monster spots by enclosing irregular shapes all over his body.
Color your monster in any way you wish.
Watch 'How to Draw a Fire' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Campfire
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a rectangle.
Within the rectangle, draw several lines extending from the center to the edges. The lines will resemble a starburst pattern, and some of the lines may meet in the middle to enclose triangles.
Erase the rectangle.
At the end of each set of lines, draw a circle, an oval, or a curved line to connect the lines.
Within each circle or oval, draw a spiral.
Draw a half circle, open on the top, across the center of the starburst.
Erase any guide lines that extend into the half circle.
Draw a series of curving, loosely “S” shaped lines above the half circle, meeting in blunt points. These lines should enclose the figure.
Between the curving tendrils of flame drawn in the previous step, draw more sets of curving lines that meet in blunt points.
Extend another set of curving lines upwards, ending in a blunt point.
Draw another set of curving lines, ending in a sharp point.
Continue filling in the gaps between the flames. Draw another set of curving lines, ending in a blunt point.
Draw sparks licking up from the flames. Do this by using two short, curved lines to enclose a shape, pointed on the top and bottom. Draw several such shapes above the flames.
Erase guide lines from within the flames.
Draw two more sets of flames using curved lines.
Draw another log at the base of the fire. First, draw two parallel lines. Connect the lines on one end using an oval, and on the other end using a curved line.
Erase guide lines from within the log.
Add texture to the logs. Draw swirling lines, curved lines, and curved triangles to indicate bark on each log.
Give your campfire some ground to stand on. Draw a long, straight horizon line passing behind the base of the fire. Then, draw several more short, straight lines parallel to the horizon to indicate the ground.
Color your campfire. Flames may naturally range in color from blue and white to yellow, orange, and red.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​a ​Galaxy' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​​ ​​a ​Galaxy
The Complete Galaxy Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1.​ ​​​Begin by drawing a small oval, tilted at a diagonal angle. This will form the center of the galaxy.
2. ​Draw another, much larger, oval around the first. This will form outer portions of the galaxy.
3. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw a third tilted oval between the first two, adding yet another layer to the galaxy.
4. ​​​​Draw curved lines encircling the ovals. Notice how the lines overlap but do not touch. These lines form the galaxy’s spiral arms.
5.​​ ​​Draw a small circle to one side of the galaxy, indicating a planet in the foreground of the picture.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Using a circle, draw another small planet on the other side of the galaxy.
7. ​​​​​Draw a half circle at the side of your page (or, a whole circle if you have enough room). This shape forms yet another planet. Then, draw a curved line around the middle of the planet, forming rings like those of the planet Saturn.
8.​​​ ​​​​​​​Draw another small planet in the foreground, using a circle.
9.​​​ ​​Bespeckle your drawing with dots, small circles, and shaded circles of various sizes. Are they stars? Black holes? Rogue planets? The choice is yours. Detail one of your larger planets with a pair of lines banding its middle.
10. ​​Color your galaxy. In our example, we’ve shaded the depths of space a dark blue, and used blue and purple to highlight the arms of the galaxy. What colors will your planets be? Gas giants like Saturn and Jupiter may be shades of red or orange, while cold planets like Neptune and Uranus often appear blue.
Do you want your drawing skills to be out of this world? Check out our other interstellar drawing tutorials, such as the planet earth, the moon, the night sky, and an alien life form.
Watch 'How to Draw a Ghost' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Ghost
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Start by drawing a large triangle and an oval on top of it.
Add two rectangles, one to each side, for the arms.
Draw two ovals for the ghost’s hands.
Add a wavy line at the bottom of the drawing.
Draw eight ovals for the fingers.
Now we will start making the drawing more “real”. Sketch slightly curing lines outside the triangle and rectangles. The ghost needs to look soft and not too precise.
Erase the inner lines. Tweak the finger shapes to make them look more real. Also, add a couple of lines for the thumbs and palms.
Add two ovals for the eyes. Draw the pupils inside. The ghost is frowning, so the eyebrows need to be close to each other and angled down. Draw a peanut shape for the open mouth.
Add the final details; two sharp teeth and the tongue.
Tweak as needed, erase the stray lines, outline the drawing with black lines, and color it.
Watch 'How to Draw a Heart' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Heart
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an upside down ​isosceles triangle – a triangle ​with two sides of equal length.
Draw a straight vertical line, extending from the bottom point of the triangle, past the top line.
Draw a curved line on the left side of the triangle. The line should curve into the triangle near the bottom and outside the triangle near the top.
Repeat this process to produce a mirror image on the right side.
Draw a circle intersecting the left side of the triangle. It should be placed between the curved line and the vertical line.
Repeat this process to produce a mirror image on the other side.
Erase the guide lines from within the shape. You now have a perfectly formed heart.
Color your heart. If you want to give the heart depth, draw a wavy line along one side of the heart and a smaller curved line along the top on the opposite side. If you shade these lines in a lighter color than the rest of the heart, it will appear to “shine” as if the image were three-dimensional.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​​a ​Kiss Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a ​Kiss Emoji
The Complete Kiss Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the emoji’s round face.
2. ​​​​​​​Draw a round eye and a winking eye. On one side of the emoji’s face, draw a small circle and shade within it. On the opposite side, use two short, curved lines to enclose a curved shape, like a crescent moon. Shade within this shape.
3. ​​Draw a thick, curved line above each eye to indicate eyebrows. Notice that the lines are thicker towards the middle of the eyebrow, and more narrow on the ends.
4. ​​Below the eyes, draw a curved line like a backwards number “3.” This forms the mouth with puckered lips, ready to blow a kiss.
5.​​ ​​Use two curved lines to sketch a heart shape beside the lips. Erase the guide lines of the original circle from within the heart.
6. Color your kiss emoji. Often, emojis are shaded yellow in classic smiley face style. But be creative – your emoji can be any color of the rainbow, like the pink emoji in our illustration.
Who is the recipient of this emoji’s kiss? Put your emotions down on paper with our collection of additional emoji drawing guides.If love is in the air, show it with our heart, teddybear with a heart, broken heart, and love birds drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw a Night Sky' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Night Sky
The Complete Night Sky Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing the tree line. This will be a darkened, shadowy area caused by trees backlit against the night sky. To draw your tree line, use short, connected, curved lines to form a larger, wavy line across your page.
2. Draw a crescent moon in the sky. Do so using two curved, “C” shaped lines, one larger than the other. Allow the lines to meet in sharp points on each end, enclosing the crescent shape.
3. Draw a cloud in the sky. Do so by enclosing an irregular figure using curved lines of different lengths. Notice that the cloud is flatter on the bottom and “fluffier” on top.
4. Draw a cloud behind the moon. Again, use curved lines of various lengths to enclose the shape.
5. Draw yet another cloud. Use connected, curved lines to enclose an irregular shape.
6. Draw another cloud using connected, curved lines to enclose its irregular shape.
7. Draw stars in the sky. A simple way to draw a star is by using ten straight lines to enclose the shape’s five arms.
8. Draw additional stars. Another way to draw a star is the four-pointed start. Notice how the bottom arm of the star is longer than the others.
9. Draw additional clouds using curved lines. If you’d like, add a few more stars to fill your night sky.
10. Color your night sky. Consider combining this starlit sky with one of our other drawing tutorials, such as the forest. Then, add nocturnal animals to inhabit it – bats, owls, spiders, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw a River' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a River
The Complete River Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. To begin, outline one side of the riverbank. Enclose a shape along one side of the paper using a long, curved line. Note how the shape peaks at the top, indicating a hill or mountain.
2. Draw the riverbank on the opposite side. Again, enclose an irregular shape along the edge of the drawing using a long, curved line.
3. Detail the riverbank with rocks of various sizes. For each rock, enclose an irregular shape using a curved line. Also, draw a curved line between the two sides of the riverbank, indicating the river’s distant horizon.
4. Add the detail of rocks to the opposite riverbank. For each rock, enclose an irregular shape using a curved line. Draw some rocks larger than others.
5. Begin to draw the mountains in the background. To do this, draw a curved, bumpy line from the edge of your drawing to the river’s horizon, parallel to the slope of the hill drawn previously.
6. Draw a curved line across the top of the sketch, following the curve of the hills already drawn. This indicates the mountain range in the distance.
7. Give life to your river by adding rippling details of flowing water. To do this, draw curved and wavy lines of various sizes along the length of the river. Note how curved lines are also drawn in a circular pattern around rocks located in the water.
8. Draw another small mountain straddling the river’s horizon, using a curved line.
9. Add texture to the mountains. Draw jagged, curved lines extending diagonally down the mountains’ slopes.
10. Color your river landscape. Will you draw purple mountain majesties, barren brown or grey Rockies, or misty green Smokey Mountains? Perhaps you prefer snow covered Alps. Be creative, because the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw a Shoe' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Shoe
The Complete Shoe Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a rectangle. This box will serve as a guide for drawing your shoe.
2. Draw a long, straight line across the bottom of the rectangle. This will form the sole of the shoe.
3. Draw a long, curved line from one side of the rectangle to the other, outlining the shape of the shoe’s top. Note the mountain-like crests that form the back and tongue of the shoe, and the curved area that indicates the toe.
4. Detail the outline of the shoe. Draw curved lines from the sole of the shoe to the curve of the toe. Draw short, curved lines at the back of the sole and heel of the shoe. Draw a curved line from the shoe’s back to its interior, giving the drawing depth.
5. Erase the guide lines formed by the original rectangle. You should now see a clean outline of the shoe.
6. Add stitching to the body of the shoe. Enclose the toe using a curved line. Draw a slightly curved line from the top of the shoe to the toe to indicate the tongue, the area that has the laces. Finally, draw a curved line from the tongue to the sole of the shoe.
7. Draw the laces. For each lace, enclose a small, curved shape using short, curved lines.
8. Erase the guide lines from the laces.
9. Add some final details of stitching to the shoe. Draw a curved line parallel to the line denoting the tongue, the curve of the toe, the curved line from the tongue to the sole, and the opening of the shoe.
10. Color your shoe. Tennis shoes can come in any color you can imagine, so be creative!
Watch 'How to Draw a Shooting Star' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Shooting Star
The Complete Shooting Star Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Draw three “V” shaped lines, connected end to end. These lines form the upper three points or arms of a five-pointed star.
2. Draw two more “V” shaped lines connected to the first. This fully encloses the shape of the star.
3. Draw a curved line from the uppermost point of the star. Attach it to the star’s arm.
4. From the tip of that same arm, draw a long curved line. This will form the shooting star’s streak or tail.
5. From the star’s opposite point, draw another long curved line. Allow it to meet the previous long line at a sharp point.
6. Draw a curved line from the remaining bottom point of the star. It should meet the existing lines at a point.
7. Draw another long curved line from between the star’s arms. This line should also meet the junction of the previous lines at a point.
8. Within the outline of the original star, draw another, smaller star. The lines of this star should run parallel to the lines of the original star.
9. Draw multiple small stars and circles around the shooting star.
Color your shooting star. In nature, shooting stars often appear white, yellow, or green. In popular culture, they can be any color you can imagine, so be creative!
If you thought this star drawing guide was far out, check out our impossible star, galaxy, earth, moon, and night sky drawing guides.

Step-by-Step Instructions  for Drawing a Skeleton
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
First, draw a small circle for the top of the skull and an overlapping rectangle below the circle.
Add two tiny ovals for the eyes and connect the circle and rectangle with short curving lines.
Erase the extra lines inside the skull. Draw a small triangle for the nose, and a half moon shape for the mouth.
Let’s do the body next. Draw a curving line down from the skull. This will be the spine. Add two short lines across the spine; one for the shoulders and another for the hip. They need to be a little tilted to help when we will draw the arms and legs later.
Draw four narrow rectangles for the upper and lower arms. Leave some space between the rectangles.
Add tiny circles in all the corners of each rectangle. Also, draw a slightly larger circle between the rectangles. These circles will help to shape the bones and will also be the joints of the skeleton.
Draw two small rectangles for palms. Add slightly bent lines for the fingers.
Draw a series of small triangles going down the spine.
Sketching the ribs can be a little complicated, but if you draw a V-shape first connecting the hip and upper arms that will help. Draw six ribs on both sides of the spine. The ribs are curved upwards.
Erase all the extra lines. When you remove the lines between the small circles and rectangles in the arms, they begin to look like bones.
Draw the hip like a peanut and add two rectangles for each leg. The rectangles are not in one line as we want our skeleton to be on the move.
Draw small circles for the leg joints like we did for the arms.
Add circles for the ankle joints and draw triangles for feet. Add five small ovals for toes to each foot.
Erase the extra lines from the legs (the same way we did for the arms).
Add some color and your skeleton drawing is ready.
Watch 'How to Draw a Slime' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Slime
The Complete Slime Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will help you to outline the slime’s head and body.
2. Extend a long curved line downward from one side of the slime. Draw the line up and down, back and forth, forming “U” shaped drips of slime. Connect the line to the slime’s opposite side.
3. Erase the guide lines of the original oval.
4. Draw curved lines between the drips of slime, forming more tentacle-like drippings. Layer even more curved lines.
5. Draw two large, irregular ovals to form the slime’s eyes. Draw a squiggly, loosely “W” shaped line below the eyes to indicate the mouth.
6. Draw wavy curved lines all over the slime, indicating a gooey, dripping texture.
7. Draw circles and irregular shapes of different sizes on the slime’s body and tentacles.
8.Draw slime dripping from this slimy monster. Draw irregular shapes beneath the slime, indicating liquid that has dripped from its body. Draw small, round droplets of slime falling but still in midair.
9. Draw a circle within a circle in each of the eyes; shade between the two shapes to indicate the pupils. Draw curved lines beside each eye to indicate eyelashes, and curved shapes, pointed on each end, above the eyes to indicate the eyebrows.
Color your slime. Will it be green like traditional slime, or will it be some other color?
Visit our characters drawing guides to discover more unique imaginary creatures.
Watch 'How to Draw a Star' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Star
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
To begin, draw a square. You may want to use a ruler to ensure straight lines and right angles.
Draw a vertical line down the middle of the square. From the same point, draw a line on each side of the first. These lines will meet the bottom of the square between the first line and the square’s sides.
Draw a straight, horizontal line across the middle of the square. From each end of this line, extend a straight line downward and towards the center vertical line. These lines will meet the vertical line halfway between the horizontal line and the bottom of the square.
From the point where the previous lines converged, draw two more lines. These lines will meet the bottom of the square at the same point as the nearly vertical lines.
From the star’s bottom two points, draw two straight lines that will converge at the star’s center.
From the star’s two side points, draw two straight lines that converge at the star’s center.
Draw straight lines from each point of the interior inverted pentagon to the star’s center.
Erase the guide lines – both those within the star and the original square.
Color your star. Using two different shades to color the star in an alternating pattern will enhance the star’s three dimensional effect.
Watch 'How to Draw a Snowflake' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Snowflake
The Complete Snowflake Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two long, straight, vertical lines, running parallel to one another. These lines will form the central shaft of the snowflake.
2. Draw another set of long, straight, parallel lines, crossing the first at a diagonal angle. These lines form additional arms of the snowflake.
3. Draw a third set of long, straight, parallel lines, crossing at the same point where the other lines meet. Your snowflake will now have six arms, all evenly spaced.
4. Draw a small hexagon in the middle of the snowflake, using six straight lines. The points of the hexagon should be aligned with the arms of the snowflake.
5. Erase the guide lines from within the hexagon.
6. Draw a small circle to enclose the end of each arm of the snowflake.
7. On each arm of the snowflake, extend two sets of straight, parallel lines at diagonal angles as compared to the arm. Enclose the shape with a small, curved line on each end. The resulting figure will resemble a boomerang. Repeat this process until a shape has been drawn on each arm.
8. Between the boomerang shape and the small circle on each arm of the snowflake, draw another, smaller boomerang shape. Use two sets of straight, parallel lines, and two short, curved lines for each. Repeat this process on each arm of the snowflake.
9. Erase guide lines from the snowflake.
10. Snow appears white, of course, but the clear ice crystals that form an individual snowflake can reflect all the colors of the rainbow. Our example is shown in blue.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​​a ​Tongue Out Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a ​Tongue Out Emoji
The Complete Tongue Out Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle, enclosing the face of the emoji.
2. ​​​​​On one side of the face, draw a small circle and shade within it. This forms the open eye. On the other side, draw a winking eye. Use two short, curved lines, connected at the tips, to form a crescent shape. Shade within this shape.
3. ​Use a short, curved line to draw an eyebrow above each eye. Notice that the eyebrow above the winking eye is slightly higher than the other, and set at a different angle. This adds to the emoji’s playful expression.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​Draw the mouth. Begin with a long, “U” shaped line. Then, connect the two tips of the “U” using a straight line. The mouth should resemble a half circle.
5.​​ ​​​​Extending from the top of the mouth, enclose the tongue using a long, “U” shaped line. Erase guide lines from the mouth as necessary. Texture the tongue by drawing a straight line down the middle.
6. Color your emoji. Many emojis are shaded yellow, in classic smiley face style. Others, like the one in our example, can come in any color you could imagine.
Check out our other fun emoji drawing tutorials today.
Watch 'How to Draw a Skull' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Skull
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a circle.
Next, draw a curved line, beginning within the circle and extending downward.
Draw another line on the opposite side, creating a mirror image of the first line.
Erase the portion of the circle that is between the two curved lines.
Draw another curved line extending downward from the middle of the first curved line.
Draw another line on the opposite side, mirroring the previous line.
Draw a curved line connecting the previous two lines.
Draw a horizontal curve in the middle of the image. This line should resemble a smile.
Draw teeth above the curved line. For each tooth, draw a curved, upside down “U” shaped line. Repeat to create eleven teeth. The two front teeth should be the largest, decreasing in size toward the sides.
Using eleven “U” shaped lines, draw a mirror image of the teeth below the curved line.
Draw the left eye by sketching a circle.
Draw a second circle to form the right eye.
Below the eyes, draw an irregular, egg shaped oval. This forms the nasal cavity.
Within the oval, draw two curved lines, beginning at the top of the shape and extending to each side.
Draw the bone extending from the upper right side. To begin, draw a large, upside down “U” shaped line. Connected to this, draw another “U” shaped line, open to the left. Connect this line to the skull using a slightly curved line.
Draw the other end of this bone extending from the bottom left. Use two curved lines to form the bone. Each line should be shaped roughly like the upper portion of a question mark.
Draw the bone extending from the bottom right using two curved lines.
Draw the bone on the upper left side. It should be a mirror image of the bone on the right side, consisting of three curved lines.
Shade each of the eyes and the upper portions of the nasal cavity.
Erase the curve from the bottom of the nasal cavity. The skull is now complete.
Watch 'How to Draw a Volcano' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Volcano
The Complete Volcano Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two diagonal, curved lines. The lines should slant toward each other at the top. This outlines the slopes, or sides, of the volcano.
2. Connect the lines at the top using a short, curved line. This indicate’s the volcano’s mouth, from which the lava erupts.
3. Connect the diagonal lines at the bottom using a wavy, scalloped line. You now have a complete outline of the shape of the volcano.
4. Draw the lava oozing from the top of the volcano using a long, curved line. The line should double back on itself many times, forming “U” shaped lava flows of various sizes.
5. Erase the guide lines from the lava.
6. Draw two curved lines extending outward from the top of the volcano. This outlines the smoke and ash that the volcano spews into the air. Add detail to the plume by drawing several shorter curved lines between the first.
7. Draw clouds of smoke at the top of the plume. Do so using a series of short, connected, “U” shaped lines. Detail the smoke by drawing several series of “U” shaped, connected lines within the interior of the smoke cloud.
8. Give the volcano some ground to stand on. Draw several wavy lines on each side of the volcano to indicate the horizon, and perhaps some additional mountains in the background. Enclose an irregular shape in the foreground of the volcano using a long, curved line. This form could be a rock, or it could be a lake – it’s up to you!
9. Add more details to the volcano.
10. Color your volcano. In our example, we’ve shaded a barren, brown, rocky wilderness around the volcano, with grey smoke and bright red and yellow lava.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​​a ​​Wink Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a ​​Wink Emoji
The Complete Wink Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the emoji’s face.
2. ​​​​​​On one side of the face, draw a small circle to indicate the open eye. Shade within the circle. On the opposite side, enclose the crescent shape of the winking eye using two short, curved lines, connected at each end. Shade within this shape.
3. ​Draw an eyebrow above each eye, using a short, curved line for each. Notice that the eyebrow above the open eye is placed higher than the other.
4. ​Draw the smiling mouth. Use two long, curved lines to form a narrow crescent shape, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points.
5.​​ ​Draw a short, curved line at each tip of the smile. Within the shape of the mouth, draw two short, curved lines to outline the teeth. Shade outside the teeth. Place a short, curved line beneath the mouth to indicate the curve of the chin.
6. Color your winking smiley face. Smiley faces are traditionally yellow in color, but feel free to be creative.
Check out our other emoji drawing guides for more emoticon fun.
Watch 'How to Draw a Waterfall' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Waterfall
The Complete Waterfall Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, curved line resembling a backwards letter “L.” This line forms one of the rock faces from which your waterfall flows.
2. Draw a short, curved line extending from the top of the rock face. Then, from this line, draw a long, curved line. You have just outlined the water flowing over your waterfall.
3. Add the detail and texture of flowing water to the waterfall. Draw long and short curved lines of various sizes down the length of the waterfall. At the bottom of the waterfall, draw a number of wavy, curved lines in a circular pattern. These lines indicate the turbulence that occurs when the rushing water meets the rocks at the bottom of the falls.
4. Draw some boulders at the bottom of the falls. For each boulder, enclose an irregular shape using a curved line.
5. Erase guide lines as needed.
6. Plants like to grow in the moist area at the bottom of a waterfall. Draw them! First, use a series of many small, connected, “U” shaped lines to outline the shrubbery. Notice how the outline of the shrub is not just round, but curving and wavy. Then, texture the bush by draw series of curved, connected, “U” shaped lines within its interior.
7. Draw the rock face on the opposite side of the waterfall using several long, connected, curved lines.
8. Draw more splashes and ripples at the bottom of the falls. Draw a wavy line to indicate the turbulence at the bottom, and draw more wavy lines around the circular lines drawn in previous steps. Enclose several teardrop shapes, indicating splashes extending outward from the falls.
9. Add the final details to your landscape. Draw a long, curved line at the top of the falls, and include additional teardrop shapes along its length. Draw jagged, wavy lines along the rock face to give it a rough texture.
10. Color your waterfall.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Cube' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Cube
The Complete Impossible Cube Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing three straight, vertical lines. The lines should be of equal length, but the middle line should be positioned lower than the others. Then, connect the lines at the bottom using straight lines. This forms the side and bottom edges of the cube.
2. Draw a quadrilateral, or four-sided shape, at the top of the cube.
3. Next, detail the top panel of the cube. Draw a smaller square within the cube’s top side. Extend a short straight line from the uppermost corner of this square. Then, draw two straight lines extending from this line, parallel to the sides of the square.
4. Draw a square within one of the side panels of the cube.
5. Draw a square within the remaining side panel of the cube.
6. Draw short straight lines extending from opposite corners of the squares. Then, draw two straight lines extending from each of the short lines. These lines should be parallel to the sides of the square.
7. Extend three straight lines from the bottom left corner of the cube. Then, extend three straight lines from the bottom right corner of the cube. Allow the bottom and middle lines to meet. Then, connect the ends of the lines, forming rectangles.
8. Erase guide lines from the shapes drawn in the previous step
9. Draw the final side of the impossible cube. Draw three straight, parallel lines connecting the upper and lower back corners of the cube.
10. Color your impossible cube.
Check out our man-made objects drawing guides for more.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Heart' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Heart
The Complete Impossible Heart Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a heart shape. Use a curved line to outline each side. Notice, though, that the top point of the heart is replaced by a short curved line. This shape outlines the interior of the impossible heart.
2. Extend a curved line from one arch of the heart. The line should run roughly parallel to the outline of the heart and extend past the bottom tip. This outlines the interior of one of the impossible heart’s beams.
3. Extend a long curved line from the tip of the line drawn in the previous step. This line should be roughly parallel to the side of the heart, ending just about the point where the heart’s arches meet. This outlines part of the impossible heart’s beams.
4. Draw a long curved line extending from the edge of the heart’s arch. The line should be roughly parallel to the first beam of the impossible heart. End the line parallel to the heart’s bottom tip, and connect it to the tip using a short straight line. This completes the beam on this side of the heart.
5. Draw a short, straight, diagonal line extending downward from the heart’s inner tip. From this, extend a long curved line upward to the side of the heart’s upper arch.
6. From the inner side of the heart, extend a curved line upward. This line should curve with the flow of the heart but not attach.
7. From this line, draw a curved line to the top of the opposite arch. This line should intersect the other open line, fully enclosing the figure of the impossible heart.
8. Shade the impossible heart using straight horizontal lines of various lengths.
9. Complete the shading of the heart.
10. Color your impossible heart.

Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Square' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Square
The Complete Impossible Square Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight vertical line. This indicates one side of the square. From the bottom of this line, extend a short, straight, diagonal line. Then, from the end of this line, extend a longer straight line on the opposite diagonal. These lines form the corner and bottom side of the square.
2. Extend a long, straight, vertical line upward from the bottom of the square. From this line, extend a shorter, straight diagonal line. Then, connect this to the original line using a long straight line.
3. Draw a straight vertical line downward from the uppermost corner of the figure. Do not extend this line as far as the bottom of the square.
4. Draw a straight diagonal line extending from the previous line. This line should be parallel to the bottom of the square, outlining the top of the bottom segment.
5. Draw a straight line upwards from the end of the previous line. This line should be parallel to the side of the square, but notice that it is farther away from the exterior line than the previous lines have been.
6. From the end of the previous line, draw a short straight line parallel to the top of the square. Then, draw a shorter straight line upward from the end of this line.
7. From the end of the previous line, draw a straight line parallel to the top of the square. Then, draw a straight line downward to meet the bottommost corner of the square.
8. Next, you will finish outlining the interior of the square. From the inner corner of the shape enclosed in the previous step, draw a straight vertical line.
9. From the previous line, draw a straight line to meet the opposite edge of the square’s interior. Connect the interior corner with the next closest corner to complete the impossible shape.
10. Color your impossible square. Then, check out our man-made objects drawing guides to learn to draw more impossible shapes.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Hexagon' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Hexagon
The Complete Impossible Hexagon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a hexagon. A hexagon is a regular six-sided figure in which the sides are all of the same length.
2. Draw a short line extending from the upper corner of the hexagon. From this line, extend a longer line parallel to the hexagon’s side. Then, from the end of this line, extend a straight line parallel to the next side of the hexagon. Notice that the distance is greater between the line and the second side than the line and the first side.
3. Draw a short, straight line extending from the next corner of the hexagon. Extend a straight line from it, parallel to the side of the hexagon.
4. Extend a short, straight line from the bottom corner of the hexagon. From this line, draw a straight line parallel to the bottom of the hexagon. Then, extend another line upward, parallel to the next side of the hexagon.
5. Draw a short line from the remaining bottom corner of the hexagon. From this, draw a straight line parallel to the side of the hexagon. Then, draw another line parallel to the next side of the hexagon.
6. Draw a short straight line emerging from the next corner of the hexagon. Then, extend a straight line parallel to the side of the hexagon.
7. Draw a short straight line from the final corner of the hexagon. From this, extend a straight line parallel to the top of the hexagon.
8. Begin to connect the outer edges of the impossible hexagon. Extend short lines from the top corner and side of the shape. Then, connect these lines to the existing lines, enclosing the top and upper side of the figure.
9. Draw a short line extending from the bottom corner of the hexagon. Then, connect all open-ended lines until the figure is completely enclosed.
Color and shade your impossible hexagon. Notice how the shading in our example makes the three-dimensional illusion more vivid.
Would you like to draw more impossible objects? Check out our man-made objects drawing guides for impossible triangles, cubes, squares, hearts, stairs, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Star' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Star
The Complete Impossible Star Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a long, straight, diagonal line. This begins to outline the first of the impossible star’s bars. From the bottom of the line, extend a shorter straight line upward. This outlines the first “leg” of the star. Then, extend another line downward at the opposite diagonal. This begins the star’s opposite “leg.”
2. From the previous line, extend a short straight line on the opposite diagonal. From there, extend a long straight line upward. From the top of this line, draw a short straight line, then another long straight line downward, parallel to the previous long line. This outlines another of the star’s bars.
3. Extend a straight line diagonally from the bottom left corner of the star. Extend another line parallel to this one from the open-ended line. From the top of the star, extend a long straight line downward, parallel to the existing line. Connect this line to the point of the star’s “leg” using a short straight line.
4. Extend two straight horizontal lines across the middle of the star. Notice that one of the lines encloses lines drawn in the previous step, and that the top line is longer than the lower line.
5. Draw a longer straight line above the lines drawn in the previous step. Connect these lines on one end using a short straight line. On the opposite end, extend a long straight line downward at a diagonal angle.
6. From the left “arm” of the star, extend a short straight line. From this, draw a long straight line parallel to the existing line. Connect the tip of the opposite arm using a long straight line.
7. Use straight lines to connect the points as pictured. Erase guide lines as necessary.
8. Extend a short straight line from the line in the uppermost point. Then, extend a line downward to meet the other bar.
9. Draw a straight line from the upper tip to the left “leg” to complete the figure.
10. Color your impossible star. Notice the shading used in our example.
Would you like to draw more impossible objects? Check out our manmade objects drawing guides for impossible triangles, hearts, squares, cubes, tridents, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Trident' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ an Impossible Trident
The Complete Impossible Trident Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing three straight lines connected at right angles. Notice that the lines are of different lengths, the middle line being much shorter than the others. The figure should resemble a diagonal rectangle that is open on one end.
2. Draw an oval at the end of the nearest line. This forms the tip of the trident’s prong.
3. From the bottom of the oval, draw a long straight line parallel to the original line. Then, connect it to the right angle of the figure using a short straight line. This outlines the side of the nearest prong.
4. Draw a small oval at the tip of the remaining line. This forms the point of the far prong.
5. From the bottom of the oval, draw a long straight line running parallel to the original line. This outlines the far prong of the trident.
6. Draw a straight line from the inner end of this prong, parallel to the back of the trident. Do not fully connect the line to the opposite prong.
7. From the line drawn in Step 6, extend a long straight line, parallel to the first prong. Extend this line beyond the tip of the first prong. This line forms both the top side of the first prong and begins the outline of the middle prong.
8. Draw an oval at the end of the line drawn in Step 7. This forms the tip of the middle prong.
9. Draw a straight line from the oval back to the base of the trident, but do not connect it to the base. Instead, draw a short line from the end of this line to the opposite side of the middle prong. Then, connect the right angle where these lines meet to the right angle just above it.
10. Shade your impossible trident. Notice how the shading in our example lends visible weight to the optical illusion.
Would you like to draw more impossible objects? Check out our selection of manmade objects drawing guides,where you’ll find other impossible objects; triangle, square, heart, cube, and more.
Watch 'How to Draw an Island' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Island
The Complete Island Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. To begin drawing your island landscape, you will first draw the sea that surrounds it. Draw a wavy horizon line – the line that marks where the water meets the sky. In the foreground, draw wavy lines of various lengths, some very short and others nearly as long as the horizon.
2. Outline your island. Do so using a long, curved line to enclose an irregular, flattened shape. Notice that the shape extends above the horizon line.
3. Enclose a few rocks in the water around your island. Do so by enclosing small, irregular shapes using curved lines.
4. Erase the guide lines of the island from behind the rocks.
5. Add texture to your island. Indicate sand on the beach using overlapping curved lines. Draw a patch of grass near the beach using a jagged, zigzag line. At the top of the island, draw some individual blades of grass. Do so by using a pair of curved lines for each, allowing the lines to meet in a point at the top.
6. Draw the trunks of the palm trees. For each, extend two curved lines upwards from the island. The lines should be closer together at the top than at the bottom.
7. Draw the crown, or leafy portion, of one of the palm trees. At the top of the trunk, extend pairs of lines outward, allowing each to meet in a point. The pairs of lines should overlap, forming a star shape.
8. Draw the crown of the second palm tree. For each frond, or leaf, extend two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point. Continue drawing connected fronds until the crown is completely enclosed, forming a star shape.
9. Add additional detail to your landscape. Use long, curved lines to enclose irregular shapes in the sky, forming clouds. Draw more wavy lines in the water, indicating the ocean surf. Using curved lines, enclose round shapes beneath the trees’ crowns, indicating coconuts.
10. themed drawing tutorials, including How to Draw a Palm Tree.
Watch 'How to Draw an Ocean' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Ocean
The Complete Ocean Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, horizontal line. This is called the horizon line. The horizon marks the point where the visible land or water meets the sky.
2. Draw a diagonal, wavy line below the horizon line. This marks the wave of the ocean, where the water meets the beach. Between the horizon line and diagonal line, draw a number of curved, horizontal lines of various lengths. These lines give texture to the water, indicating wind waves.
3. Using curved lines, enclose a number of irregular shapes on the beach, below the diagonal tide line. These shapes indicate rocks or other debris on the beach.
4. Draw a curved line from the middle of the horizontal line to the edge of the page. This outlines a distant island sitting on the horizon.
5. Draw a pair of curved, diagonal lines entering the picture from one side. Note how the lines get closer together towards the top. These lines form the trunk of a palm tree.
6. Draw five or more downward curved lines extending in a star shape from the tip of the palm tree trunk. These lines begin the leaves, or fronds, of the palm tree.
7. Further outline the leaves, enclosing their shape with a jagged line. This line should extend from the center of the star, the tip of the tree trunk, to the tip of each curved arm of the star shape.
8. Complete the leaves of the tree by enclosing them using jagged lines.
9. Add additional detail to your picture. Using connected, curved lines, outline the tops of fluffy clouds in the distance. Add more texture to the water using horizontal, wavy lines. Draw another rock on the beach using a curved line.
10. Color your tropical island landscape.
Watch 'How to Draw Angel Wings' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Angel Wings
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing a long, loosely “S” shaped diagonal, curved line.
Draw a mirror image of the first line on the opposite side of the page. These lines form the top edge of each wing.
From the uppermost point on each line, draw a curved line, angling downward diagonally. At the end of this line, draw another curved line, resembling a “U” turned on its side. Draw another sideways “U” shaped line at the end of the latter. These lines form the flight feathers of the wing. Repeat this process to form a mirror image on the opposite side.
Draw more flight feathers beneath those already drawn. Connect a series of curved, “U” shaped lines, angling towards the bottom end of the original line.
Repeat this process on the opposite side to form a mirror image.
From the bottom edge of the original line, connect a “U” shaped line, looping toward the interior of the wing. Connect the “U” shaped line to the nearest feathers using a series of small, connected “U” shaped lines. These lines form the smaller feathers at the base of the wing.
Repeat this process to form a mirror image on the opposite wing.
Across the top of the wing, draw a series of connected, curved lines, thus adding the texture of feathers. Extend the final curved line to the tip of the uppermost flight feather. Repeat on the opposite side to form a mirror image.
In the center of the wing, draw a series of short, connected curved lines and “U” shaped lines, thus adding additional feather texture to the wing.
Repeat on the opposite side to form a mirror image.
Draw a series of short, connected, “U” shaped lines curving from the feather texture to the lower inner portion of each wing. This indicates the texture of small feathers at the base of the wings.
Draw a series of connected, “U” shaped lines extending from the lower portion of the wing to the feather texture of the midsection. Allow the “U” shaped lines to grow larger in size as they reach the midsection of the wing.
Repeat this process to add the detail of feathers to the opposite wing.
Draw another series of connected, “U” shaped lines, extending from the middle of the wing. Allow these “U” shapes to be a bit more pointed, and detail the feathers with one or two short, curved lines extending from the base of each.
Repeat to add feathers to the opposite wing.
Detail the flight feathers using short, curved lines at the base and lower edge of each.
Extend a curved line from the top of the wing and the bottom of the concave edge. Within this space, draw short, curved lines to indicate the presence of feathers.
Repeat to form a mirror image on the opposite side.
Enclose the interior side of each wing using a wavy line. Above the wings, draw an oval within an oval, forming a halo.
Shade the angel wings.
Watch 'How to Draw Boots' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Boots
The Complete Boots Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a cylinder. To draw the cylinder, start with a set of vertical, parallel lines. Connect the lines with a curved line at both the top and bottom. Then, enclose an oval shape at the top using an additional curved line. You now have a three dimensional cylinder.
2. Using the cylinder as a guide, add detail to the outline of the boot. On each side of the cylinder, draw a curved line that passes in and out of the cylinder. Draw a small, rounded triangle at the bottom of the cylinder to indicate the point where the bottom of the shoe meets the heel.
3. Using a long, curved line, outline the toe of the shoe. Notice the blunt point formed where the sole and the top of the shoe meet.
4. Erase the guide lines formed by the cylinder.
5. Begin the second boot by drawing another cylinder. Since this boot is partially hidden by the first, you can use one straight, vertical line and two curved lines to enclose the shape.
6. Draw curved lines on each side of the cylinder to detail the outline of the boot.
7. Use a long, curved line to outline the boot’s toe.
8. Erase any guide lines to leave a clean outline of your boots.
9. Detail your boots with straps. For each strap, enclose a curved rectangle using short, curved lines. Draw a long, curved line parallel to the bottom of the boot, forming the sole. Finally, draw a curved line across the top of the toe.
10. Color your boots. Will they be manly, brown work boots? Or brightly colored rain boots? Be creative, as the choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw ​Buddha' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Buddha
The Complete Buddha Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by drawing an oval. This will help you to shape the top of the Buddha’s head.
2. ​​​​​​​Beneath the oval, enclose another ovular shape using a long, curved line. This forms the lower portion of the Buddha’s face.
3. ​Erase the guide line between the two figures.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​Sketch in the Buddha’s hair. To do so, draw short, curved lines connecting the outside of the ovular forms, encasing the area where the two ovals met. Then, draw a long, curved line connecting those two points on the inside of the figure. Notice that the line is loosely shaped like the letter “M.”
5.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Draw the hair bun atop Buddha’s head. Use a curved line to enclose an oval shape disappearing behind the top of the head.
6.​ ​​Draw the ears. enclose the ears using a set of overlapping curved lines. Erase guide lines as necessary. Within the ear, enclose a narrow teardrop shape.
7. ​Detail and texture the hair. Do so by drawing small circles of various sizes. According to some legends, this texture isn’t hair at all, but tiny snails that covered the Buddha’s head to keep him cool while he meditated in the hot sun.
8.​​​ ​Extend two curved lines downward from the head, forming the neck. Note how the lines curve outward in opposite directions. Detail the contour of the throat using a short, curved line.
9.​​ ​​​​Draw the Buddha’s face. Shade two thick, curved shapes to form the eyebrows. Beneath the eyebrows, enclose each eyelid using two curved lines. Thickly shade the lower line. Extend a pair of lines to form the nose, and complete the shape using two curved lines. Use three curved lines to enclose the lips, and another small, curved line beneath the mouth to add depth to the chin.
10. ​Color the Buddha. Statues of Buddha may be made of shining gold, or they may be of stone – grey, brown, or even covered with green moss.
Don’t forget to check out our other fun drawing guides, such as animals and plants.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​​a Crying Laughing Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ a Crying Laughing Emoji
The Complete Crying Laughing Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle to outline the emoji’s face.
2. ​​​​Draw the squinting eyes of the emoji. For each eye, draw two curved lines, connected on each end at a sharp point. The eyes should resemble crescent moons turned on their sides.
3. ​Next, draw the eyebrows by placing a curved line above each eye. Notice how the line is slightly thicker in the middle.
4. ​​​​​​​​​Draw a large teardrop shape at the corner of each eye. Allow the pointed tip of the teardrop to overlap the corner of the eye. Erase guide lines as necessary.
5.​​ ​​​Use two long, curved lines to enclose the laughing mouth. The bottom line should be “U” shaped, and the mouth should resemble a half circle. Using a curved line for each, enclose a rounded shape at the top and bottom of the mouth. These shapes indicate the tongue and teeth.
6.  Draw a short, curved line at each corner of the mouth, and another beneath the mouth to indicate the chin.Color your laughing, crying emoji. Emojis are typically yellow in color, in classic smiley face style. Want to give your emoji something to laugh about? Check out our other emoji drawing guides today!
Watch 'How to Draw ​​Emojis: Happy Emoji' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for​ Drawing a Happy Emoji
The Complete Happy Face Emoji Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Begin by drawing a circle. This outlines the emoji.
2. ​​​Draw the emoji’s eyes. This happy emoji has upturned, nearly closed eyes. For each eye, use two curved lines, connected on each end in a sharp point. The curved shape of the eye should resemble a crescent moon turned on its side. Repeat this process to form the second eye.
3. ​Draw the emoji’s eyebrows by placing a curved line above each eye.
4. ​​​​​​​​Draw the emoji’s smiling mouth. To draw the mouth, use two wide, “U” shaped lines. The lines should connect in sharp points on each end, enclosing a curved, crescent shape. The mouth should resemble the eyes, only larger and turned in the opposite direction.
5.​​ ​​​Add finishing details to your emoji. Shade within the shape of each eye. Draw a curved line at each corner of the mouth, enclosing the shape of the tongue. Shade around the tongue. Indicate the curve of the chin by placing a short, curved line beneath the mouth.
6. Color your happy emoji. Most emojis are shaded yellow in classic smiley face style, but feel free to be creative.
Give your emoji something to smile about by checking out our other fun drawing guides.
Watch 'How to Draw Clouds' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Clouds
The Complete Clouds Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line to form a half circle. This will be the top of your cloud.
2. Draw a smaller curved line overlapping the first. In so doing, you begin to give your cloud a fluffy shape.
3. Draw another short, curved line overlapping the first.
4. Draw a series of connected, curved lines from one side of the cloud and across its bottom.
5. Continue drawing short, curved, connected lines. Enclose the shape of the cloud by connecting the bottom of the cloud to its remaining side.
6. Erase guide lines from where the lobes of the cloud overlap.
7. Add detail to your cloud, giving it texture and depth. Draw several sets of connected, curved lines within the interior of the cloud, causing a fluffy appearance. Allow some of the lines to curl into spirals.
8. Draw another small cloud behind the first. Use overlapping, curved lines to enclose an irregular, fluffy shape.
9. Use short, connected, curved lines to add detail to the interior of the smaller cloud drawn in the previous step. Then, draw yet another cloud behind the first, using connected, curved lines.
10. Color your cloud. Clouds are typically depicted as being white or light blue, but those aren’t the only colors they can be. Storm clouds may be black, grey, brown, or even green. At sunrise or sunset, clouds may reflect shades of pink, purple, orange, or red.
Watch 'How to Draw ​​Cinco de Mayo' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​​​ ​Cinco de Mayo
The Complete Cinco De Mayo Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. ​Begin by enclosing a curved shape, resembling a banana. This shape will form the bottom of the sombrero.
2. ​​Enclose a slightly smaller banana shape inside the first. This forms the inner folds of the hat’s brim, giving it dimension.
3.​ ​​​Extend a long, curved line downward from the brim of the hat, then curve it around to follow the shape of the brim. Attach the line to the brim on the opposite side. You’ve just enclosed the front of the hat’s brim.
4. ​​​​​​​​​​​​From the interior of the brim, draw a long, curved line, upwards. Curve the line back down, enclosing an irregular shape. This forms the crown, the raised central portion of the hat.
5.​​ ​​Erase guide lines from the crown, leaving a clean outline of the sombrero.
6.​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Decorate your sombrero with interesting patterns. Use a series of connected, curved lines to form a wave-like pattern on the front of the brim. Draw a similar pattern at the bottom of the crown, and add an encircling curved line just above it.
7. ​Begin to outline your maracas. Begin by drawing an oval or egg shape, but leave the line unconnected at the bottom. Extend another curved line downward from the opening. Double it back upon itself to enclose the figure.
8.​​​ ​Draw the second maraca behind and at an angle to the first. Again, begin with an egg shape, but leave it open at the bottom. Extend two curved lines from the opening, to connect with the handle of the first maraca. Complete the second maraca’s handle be enclosing a small, rounded shape on the opposite side.
9. ​​Decorate your maracas. Draw pairs of curved, parallel lines across both the rattle and the handle. Draw a set of parallel zigzag lines as well. Draw small circles between some of the lines.
10.​ Color your maracas and sombrero. These items are often brightly colored, so be creative.
Don’t let the party stop there! Check out our other fun drawing guides, including a cowboy hat, fireworks, and two different types of guitars.
Watch 'How to Draw Crystals' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Crystals
The Complete Crystals Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a zigzag line. Use straight or slightly curved lines for each portion. This line will form the bottom of the crystal.
2. Enclose a crystal. Do so using a series of connected, curved lines of various lengths. The figure will include part of the original zigzag line as its base.
3. Outline the second crystal, again using connected, straight lines. Notice that this crystal is larger than the first.
4. Draw a third crystal emerging from between the first two. Enclose the figure using a series of straight lines.
5. Draw another crystal. Notice how this crystal emerges at a different angle as compared to its predecessors. Use connected, straight lines of different lengths to enclose the figure.
6. Draw yet another crystal emerging from behind the others. Use several straight lines to enclose the figure.
7. Now, you will begin to add detail to your crystal. To indicate facets, enclose an irregular pentagon in one crystal. Then, attach the corners of the pentagon to the outline of the crystal using straight lines. Below this crystal, enclose the remaining open space using small and large rectangles.
8. Add the detail of facets to additional crystals. In the small crystal, enclose a shape at its tip, and draw a straight line running the length of the crystal. Do the same for the larger crystal, enclosing an additional shape at its base. Extend a few rectangles from the side of the crystal structure.
9. Add faceted detail to the remaining crystals. For each, enclose the tips and draw one or more lines running the length of the crystal. Use a hatching technique – short, straight, parallel lines – to give texture to the crystals.
10. Color your crystals. Will they be clear like quartz, red like a ruby, or green like kryptonite? The choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw a Cupcake' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing a Cupcake
The Complete Cupcake Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two horizontal lines. The upper line should be longer than the lower line. These lines form the top and bottom of the cupcake wrapper.
2. Connect the horizontal lines using two straight lines, enclosing a trapezoid.
3. Draw a series of short, curved lines on the top of the trapezoid, forming a scalloped edge.
4. Draw a curved line beneath the trapezoid, giving the cupcake wrapper a rounded bottom.
5. Erase the guide lines from the cupcake wrapper.
6. Draw the cupcake emerging from the wrapper. Do so by using a long, curved line to enclose a half circle.
7. Decorate the cupcake wrapper by drawing several sets of curved, parallel lines across it, giving it a striped pattern. Draw a few small circles on the cupcake, indicating sprinkles.
8. The best part of a cupcake is the icing. Begin to draw the icing using a long, curved line.
9. Enclose the icing using curved lines. Note how the icing forms a spiral shape, similar to a soft-serve ice cream cone.
10. Color your cupcake. Be creative, because cupcakes can come in any color you can imagine. For example, you can use your favorite colors, your school colors, or the colors of your favorite sports team.
Watch 'How to Draw Flames and Smoke' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Flames and Smoke
The Complete Flames and Smoke Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by outlining the flames. To do this, draw several sets of curved lines, allowing the lines to meet in a sharp point. Draw one long, curved line that will soon become the center of the flame.
2. Draw more licking flames, again using curved lines of various lengths. Allow the lines to meet in sharp points.
3. Add additional flames to the foreground of your drawing. Use curved lines of different lengths, allowing the lines to meet in sharp points.
4. Continue drawing flames using sets of short, curved lines. Allow each set of lines to meet in a sharp point.
5. Draw bits of flame and ash rising from the fire. For each spark, draw two short, curved lines, enclosing a shape that is pointed on each side.
6. Draw many more sparks, enclosing pointed shapes with curved lines. In addition to these shapes, draw small circles or dots of ash. Also draw short, curved lines above the flames, indicating the heat rising from the fire.
7. Draw a plume of smoke. To do this, enclose an irregular, rounded shape above the fire using a series of connected, curved lines.
8. Draw another, smaller cloud of smoke hovering above the fire. Using a series of connected, curved lines, enclose an irregular rounded shape.
9. Enclose a few more small clouds of smoke, using connected, curved lines. Draw a few more dots of ash amid the smoke.
10. Color your fire. Smoke may range from white steam to shades of black and grey. Fires are typically seen as yellow, red, and orange in color.
Watch 'How to Draw Grass' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Grass
The Complete Grass Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a single blade of grass. Draw two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a point at the top.
2. Draw more blades of grass. For each, extend two curved lines, allowing them to meet in a sharp point at the top. Notice that the blades of grass overlap, with lines of adjacent blades meeting in points on the bottom.
3. Draw more blades of grass, using a set of curved lines for each.
4. Continue drawing grass blades; this time, the patch of grass will be set slightly behind the first. Notice how the lines seem to pass behind the previous blades of grass.
5. Draw even more grass. Continue to use a pair of curved lines for each blade.
6. Draw another patch of grass in the distance. Rather than drawing individual blades, this time you will use a series of short, connected, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
7. Draw additional patches of grass in the distance. Again, connect short, curved lines in a jagged zigzag pattern.
8. Draw a few more blades of grass in the foreground, using a pair of curved lines for each. Give one of your distant patches some ground to stand on by drawing a wavy, curved line beneath it.
9. Draw curved lines under each of the patches of grass. Draw a horizon line – the point where the ground meets the sky – using curved lines of various lengths. Allow some of the lines to overlap, forming uneven ground, while others can meet in jagged points, indicating more grass on the horizon. Enclose a few irregular, rounded shapes to indicate random rocks.
10. Color your grassy landscape. Don’t forget to populate your picture with animals such as lions, giraffes, zebras, bunnies, and more. You can learn to draw these animals and others using our animal drawing tutorials.
Watch 'How to Draw a​​ Flaming Skull' Video Tutorial
Step by Step Instructions for Drawing a​ ​​Flaming Skull
The Complete Flaming Skull Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing an oval. This will form the top of the skull.
2. Extend two curved lines from the oval, bent at a right angle. This will outline the eye sockets.
3. Using three curved lines that join at approximately right angles, enclose the lower mouth portion of the skull.
4. Using curved lines, enclose elongated, curved shapes along the bottom of the skull. This will form the teeth.
​​​​​​​5. Erase the lines at the bottom of the shapes formed in the previous step.
6. Draw two diagonal lines in the center of the skull. Draw a curved line beneath each diagonal line, enclosing a slanted semicircle shape. Shade this shape. Add detail by placing a short, curved line at the corners of each eye.
7. Beneath the eyes, draw a curved, upside down triangle. This will form the nose. Shade within the triangle, and draw a short, curved line around each of its corners.
8. Draw the flames (or hair, if you prefer) using a series of connected, curved lines that meet in rounded and jagged points.
9. Draw more flames above the skull, enclosing wispy, irregular shapes using curved lines. The shapes should be pointed on both ends.
10. Color your flaming skull. Want to rock on? Combine this tutorial with an electric guitar to make heavy metal magic.
Watch 'How to Draw an Impossible Stairs' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing​ Impossible Stairs
The Complete Impossible Stairs Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing three connected straight lines, one vertical and the remaining lines diagonal. Notice that the lines vary in length. These lines outline the base of the impossible stairs.
2. Draw straight vertical lines of different lengths from the corner and end of the lines. These form the sides of the walls comprising the stairs.
3. Draw a series of short, connected, straight lines. The lines should be arranged in a zigzag pattern, forming the edge of the stairs and connecting two form the vertical lines.
4. Draw a second set of connected straight lines, forming a zigzag pattern, to connect the remaining vertical lines. This forms the edge of another side of the stairs.
5. Draw diagonal straight lines extending from the points of the first zigzag line. These short lines should be parallel to one another. Then, connect these lines to one another using short straight lines. This forms the first set of three-dimensional stairs.
6. Extend short straight lines on the opposite diagonal from the points of the second zigzag line. The lines should be parallel to one another. Then, connect the end of each line to the line beside it using short straight lines. Notice that each successive stair is attached to the approximate midpoint of the stair before it.
7. From the base of the second set of stairs, extend a zigzag line upward on a diagonal slant. Use two short straight lines to connect it to the top of the first set of stairs. This outlines the interior edges of the far sets of stairs.
8. Draw short straight lines extending at a diagonal angle from the third zigzag line. The lines should be parallel to one another. Then, connect each line to the line before it using short straight lines. This forms the third set of stairs.
9. Extend short straight lines from the points of the remaining zigzag line. Connect these using straight lines, forming the final set of stairs.
10. Color your impossible stairs, shading them as pictured in our example in order to enhance the three dimensional nature of the optical illusion.
Check out our man-made objects drawing guides for more impossible objects, including an impossible square, impossible cube, and impossible heart.
Watch 'How to Draw Mountains' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Mountains
The Complete Mountains Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing two curved lines. The lines should slope downward from each side of your picture, overlapping in the middle. This forms a hilly horizon line for your mountain landscape.
2. Draw a jagged line from one side of the picture, allowing it to meet the horizon line on the other. Notice how the line peaks in the middle, outlining your first mountain.
3. Draw another jagged line from the side of the first mountain to the edge of your picture. This forms a second mountain. From this mountain, outline a third using a jagged line.
4. Enclose a fourth mountain in the middle of the picture using a jagged line.
5. Draw several overlapping, jagged lines in the background of the landscape. The farther away the mountains are the more indistinct they become. These lines indicate many mountain peaks rather than individual mountains.
6. Draw a spruce tree, a common plant in mountainous areas. To draw a spruce tree, begin with two short, curved lines that meet in an upward facing point. For each side of the tree, draw additional sets of short, curved lines that meet in points. Continue until the entire tree is thus enclosed.
7. Draw more spruce trees. For each tree, use short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
8. Continue to draw the forest of spruce trees. For each tree, enclose the figure using short, curved lines that meet in jagged points.
9. Add detail to your mountains. Many mountains are snow capped, meaning they have a blanket of snow upon their highest peaks. Indicate this by enclosing the mountain tops with curved, wavy lines. Draw curved lines down the length of the mountains to indicate the slopes. Enclose irregular figures of various sizes to form rocks in the foreground. Finally, mark a trail through the wilderness using a set of curved lines.
10. Color your mountain landscape. Will they be grey Smokey Mountains or purple mountain majesties? The choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw Lightning' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Lightning
The Complete Lightning Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a cloud. Outline the top of the cloud using a series of short, connected, curved lines.
2. Draw a second cloud overlapping the first. Again, use short, connected, curved lines to outline the top of the cloud.
3. Draw a third cloud, again using short, connected, curved lines.
4. Enclose the shape of the central cloud using a series of short, connected, curved lines.
5. Outline the bottom of each of the background clouds using short, connected, curved lines.
6. Draw a lightning bolt descending from the central cloud. To draw the lightning, extend two zigzag lines from the cloud, each consisting of short, straight lines that meet in points. Allow the lines to converge in a sharp point at the tip.
7. Draw additional lightning bolts. First, draw a layer of cloud within the shape of the cloud using short, curved lines. From this area, draw two zigzag lines that meet in a point. Repeat this process on one of the smaller background clouds.
8. Erase guide lines from the lightning bolts.
9. Draw additional low lying clouds, using overlapping segments of short, curved lines.
10. Color your stormy sky. Storm clouds are often depicted as being black, grey, brown, or dark blue. It has been observed that during a hailstorm or a tornado, clouds may even turn green or pink. What is your storm cloud raining upon? Check out our other easy drawing guides to get the full picture.
Watch 'How to Draw Rain' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Rain
The Complete Rain Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a series of short, connected, curved lines, with the curve facing downward. This forms the bottom of the rain cloud.
2. Draw a number of straight lines of various lengths beneath the cloud. This indicates rain streaking quickly down.
3. Continue to draw streaks of rain using short, straight lines of various lengths.
4. Draw more streaks of rain, again using straight lines of different lengths.
5. Amid the streaking rain, draw some classic raindrops. For each raindrop, enclose a shape using a curved line. The raindrop should have a point on the top and a rounded bottom.
6. Continue to draw additional raindrops.
7. Draw more raindrops between the short, straight lines.
8. Draw more raindrops.
9. Continue to fill out your drawing with additional raindrops and straight lines of streaking rain.
10. Color your rain cloud. Storm clouds are often black or grey, or even green. Rain can fall from fluffy white clouds as well. At sunset, clouds may appear pink, red, orange, or purple. Check out our other drawing tutorials to learn to complete your rainy landscape.
Watch 'How to Draw Rocks' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Rocks
The Complete Rocks Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a bumpy, curved line. This line will form the top of a rock.
2. Enclose the figure of the rock using a second irregular, curved line.
3. Begin to draw another, smaller rock using a curved line extending from the first.
4. Finish enclosing the figure of the second rock using a curved line. Allow the line to curve back around on itself, thus enclosing a third small rock. Enclose the form of a forth rock nearby.
5. Extend a curved line from the pile of rocks. This begins the outline of yet another rock.
6. Finish enclosing the figure of the previous rock by drawing two more small rocks at its base. For each small rock, use a curved line.
7. Using a curved line, enclose the irregular form of another rock to one side of the picture.
8. Give your rocks some ground to stand on. Extend a horizon line from each side of the rock pile. Beneath and around the rocks, draw curved lines of various lengths, giving the ground texture.
9. Texture the rocks using multiple sets of short, curved, parallel lines. This technique is known as hatching. Enclose a small oval on the ground to indicate a pebble.
10. Color your rocky landscape. Will your rocks be brown or tan, red or grey, or perhaps some other color? The choice is yours.
Watch 'How to Draw Santa Claus' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Santa Claus
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
Begin by drawing an oval to outline Santa’s head.
Draw a smaller oval within the first to form the nose.
Extend two curved lines from each side of the nose, allowing them to meet in blunt points. This forms the mustache.
Erase the guide line from between the sides of the mustache.
Draw a wavy, scalloped line, enclosing a shape from one side of the head to the other. This forms the beard.
Extend two long, curved lines downward from the beard, outlining the body. Connect the lines using a long, curved line. Around the bottom of the figure, draw a long, scalloped line.
Outline the arm using a long, curved line, looping from the shoulder and into the torso. Draw a shorter curved line to form the other side of the arm.
Erase the guide lines from across the arm.
Enclose the cuff of the sleeve by drawing a series of connected, short, curved lines.
Enclose the hand using a curved line. Add detail where the thumb and fingers meet by drawing a short, curved line.
Erase the guide lines from the hand. Draw a rounded rectangle on one side of the torso to form the belt buckle. Draw a smaller rounded rectangle within the first. Then, draw a set of parallel lines extending from each of the three visible sides of the belt buckle, terminating at the edge of the torso.
Draw Santa’s sack of toys. Draw a wavy line beneath his hand to indicate the opening of the sack. Extend a long, curved line from his hand, looping over his shoulder and ending at the bottom of the figure. Draw a shorter curved line extending from the hand and over the shoulder. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Draw three short, curved lines extending from the bottom of the figure to outline the legs. Connect the lines using a scalloped line. Enclose the cuff of each leg using a scalloped line.
Draw Santa’s boots. For each boot, extend a long curved line from the cuff to outline the bottom of the shoe, looping around to form the top of the shoe. Connect the top of the shoe to the cuff using a short line, and draw a line parallel to the bottom of the boot.
Draw Santa’s other arm by extending a long curved line from the shoulder. Enclose an irregular circle to indicate the hand, and use a scalloped line to form the cuff. Erase guide lines as necessary.
Enclose the bottom of Santa’s hat using a scalloped line.
Draw a circle to form the puffy ball at the end of the hat. Detail it with a few short, curved lines. Connect it to the brim of the hat using two long, curved lines.
Draw two curved lines between the portions of the mustache to indicate the mouth, and draw each eyebrow using two curved lines.
For each eye, draw a circle within a circle. Draw a tiny circle within each eye, and shade around it.
Color Santa. He is typically depicted wearing a red suit with white trim.
Watch 'How to Draw the Impossible Triangle' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​the Impossible Triangle
The Complete Impossible Triangle Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a small equilateral triangle, that is, a triangle with sides of equal lengths. This will form the opening in the middle of the impossible triangle.
2. Extend a short, straight line diagonally from each of the triangle’s points. These lines will form the basis of the impossible triangle’s three dimensional appearance.
3. From the uppermost diagonal line, draw a straight line parallel to the side of the small triangle. Then, from this line, draw another straight line parallel to the bottom of the small triangle.
4. Draw a straight, horizontal line from the lowest of the original diagonals. This line should be parallel to and equidistant from the other two horizontal lines.
5. Draw a long, straight line upward from the remaining diagonal line, parallel to the side of the small triangle.
6. From the uppermost point of the line drawn in the previous step, draw a long, straight line parallel to the opposite side of the triangle.
7. From the middle horizontal line, extend a long, straight line upward, parallel to the side of the existing triangle.
8. All that remains is to enclose the figure of the impossible triangle. Begin by closing one of the corners with a short, straight line.
9. Use short, straight lines to enclose the remaining corners of the impossible triangle.
10. Color your drawing.Ready for more geometric drawings? Check out our guides for drawing crystals, snowflakes, and stars.
Watch 'How to Draw the Moon' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing the Moon
The Complete Moon Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This will outline the moon itself.
2. Draw a cloud passing in front of the moon. Begin the top of the cloud using short, connected curved lines.
3. Completely enclose the shape of the cloud, using short, connected curved lines to outline the bottom of the cloud.
4. Add another cloud beneath the moon. Again, use short, connected, curved lines to outline the cloud.
5. Enclose the cloud using short, curved, connected lines to outline the bottom portion.
6. Erase the guide line of the moon’s circle from the overlapping cloud.
7. Add detail to the moon. Draw craters by enclosing irregular shapes of various sizes within the moon.
8. Add additional detail to the moon’s surface. Draw dots, small circles, and irregular shapes to indicate craters.
9. Draw additional clouds above and below the moon using connected, curved lines of different sizes. Draw a star nearby.
10. Color your night sky complete with its moon. Why not combine your moon picture with some of our other drawing tutorials, such as a desert or a forest? Then, populate your scene with your favorite animals.
Watch 'How to Draw the Sun' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing the Sun
The Complete Sun Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a circle. This forms the center of the sun.
2. Draw a number of tall, narrow triangles across the top of the circle. These triangles serve as the beginning of the sun’s rays. At this point, your drawing will resemble a head with spiky hair.
3. Continue drawing tall, narrow triangles around the outside of the circle.
4. Between the triangles already drawn, sketch smaller, shorter triangles. These triangles form additional rays.
5. Continue drawing the smaller triangles until you have completed the circuit around the sun.
6. Draw two large ovals within the circle of the sun. These ovals will form the sun’s eyes. Above each eye, draw a small, curved shape to form the eyebrows.
7. Erase the guide lines from the sun rays. You will now have a separate, spiky pattern around the sun rather than individual triangles.
8. Draw a small oval in the middle of the sun to indicate the nose. Beneath the nose, draw a wide, “U” shaped line. Draw a short, curved line at each end of the “U.” This forms the sun’s smiling mouth.
9. Add detail to the sun’s eyes. Draw a large oval to form the pupil in each eye. Then, draw a small circle to highlight the eye. Shade between the circle and the oval. Finally, draw a few short, curved lines at the corner of each eye to indicate eyelashes.
10. Color your sun. Often, suns are colored using various shades of yellow. However, in nature, the sun can appear red or orange as well.
Watch 'How to Draw Waves' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing Waves
The Complete Waves Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a curved line. This forms the crest of the first wave.
2. Draw another, larger curved line connected to the first. This forms the second wave.
3. Draw another curved line, forming another wave.
4. Every wave has a frothy portion at the top, often called a whitecap. Draw the whitecap of the central wave using a wavy, curved line.
5. Draw a whitecap on the small wave using a wavy, curved line.
6. Draw the whitecap on the remaining wave using a curved line. Complete the largest wave by drawing a curved line from its crest to the wave below it.
7. Draw another wave in the foreground. Use a long, curved line for its top and a squiggly line for the whitecap.
8. Add the detail of turbulence to the water. Draw wavy, curved lines between the waves.
9. Draw more wavy lines in the foreground. In the background, draw choppy water by allowing short, curved lines to come to a point.
10. Color your landscape.
Watch 'How to Draw an Umbrella' Video Tutorial
Step-by-Step Instructions for Drawing an Umbrella
The Complete Umbrella Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by drawing a straight, vertical line. This will form the shaft that supports the umbrella.
2. Draw a second straight, vertical line, parallel to the first.
3. Draw a straight, horizontal line near the top of the vertical lines. This guide line will help you to form the bottom of the umbrella.
4. Draw a series of short, curved lines atop the straight, horizontal line, forming a scalloped pattern.
5. Erase the horizontal guide line from beneath the scalloped line.
6. Draw a long, curved line from one end of the scalloped line to the other end. This line forms the top of the umbrella.
7. Draw two curved, “U” shaped lines at the bottom of the umbrella’s shaft. Connect the lines using a short, curved line. You have just drawn the umbrella’s handle.
8. Add detail to your umbrella. Draw a small circle at the top of the umbrella to indicate the area where the umbrella’s cloth and spokes attach to the shaft. Draw a similar small circle at each tip of the scalloped line. This indicates the area where the cloth of the umbrella is attached to each spoke.
9. The cloth of an umbrella is typically made of multiple panels, attached to the spokes that support the cloth. Add this detail by drawing long, curved lines from the circle at the top of the umbrella to each point of the scalloped line.
10. Color your umbrella. Be creative, as umbrellas can come in any color you can imagine.
Watch 'How to Draw​ a Winter Scenery' Video Tutorial
​Step by Step Instructions for Drawing ​​a Winter Scene
The Complete Winter Scenery Drawing Tutorial in One Image
Printable PDF of the Drawing Guide
1. Begin by sketching in the horizon line. Use short and long strokes, allowing the lines to overlap slightly. This will give the ground the uneven texture of snow drifts.
2. Draw a three dimensional house. Begin by drawing three straight, vertical lines. Then, connect the lines using straight lines, allowing the new lines to extend beyond the edges of the house. This will form the eaves of the roof. Draw a second set of straight lines parallel to the previous, and connect them using short, straight lines. Finally, use two straight lines to enclose the rectangular shape of the roof.
3. Add detail to the house. Draw two straight, parallel lines extending from the roof, and top it with a small rectangle to form the chimney. Draw a rectangle to form the door, then add an arch atop it using a curved line. Draw a short, vertical line through the arch. Then, draw a circle above the door and small squares along the walls to form windows. Draw a set of perpendicular lines across each window.
4. Draw a snowman in the foreground. Give him a firm foundation using curved, overlapping lines. This indicates the snow drift on the ground. Draw a small circle for the head; beneath it, enclose a small and large rounded shape to form the scarf and lower section of the body.
5. Every snowman needs a top hat; enclose one using two curved lines. Erase guide lines as necessary. Then, draw a rounded rectangle beneath the snowman’s middle. Extend short lines from the rectangle, giving it the fringe of a scarf.
6. Draw pine trees in the background. Begin by using curved lines to form a hill. Use short, curved lines connected at dull points to form the trees. For the nearest tree, draw a trunk using two curved lines.
7. Draw snow covering the trees and house. Do so by enclosing irregular shapes, using curved lines.
8. Erase guide lines from the clinging snow.
9. Draw additional trees in the background, again using short, curved lines. Enclose an irregular shape above the chimney to indicate smoke. Detail the snowman – add small circles to his body to form buttons, dots for eyes, a curved line for a mouth, and a triangle ringed with curved lines to display his carrot nose. Use curved lines to add more drifting snow, and circles of various sizes to indicate falling snowflakes.
10. Color your wintry scene.